# Module 11: Using Cognitive Services
# Lab: Using Cognitive Services

### Scenario
You work as a data scientist for Adatum Consultants, a company that provides machine learning services and advice for a range of clients. One of your clients is planning the deployment of a range of applications that use of the Cognitive Services APIs.
You are working with a team of business analysts and developers, and are focusing on three scenarios:
-   Building a hotel bot for hotel reviews and searches, utilizing LUIS.
-   Using the Face API to analyze photos.
-   Building a recommendation engine for an e-commerce store.

### Objectives
After completing this lab, you will be able to:
-   Build a language application using LUIS.
-   Use the Face API in applications to analyze faces.
-   Use the Recommendations API to build recommendations for an e-commerce store.

### Lab Setup
Estimated Time: 60 minutes
Virtual machine: **20774A-LON-DEV**
User name: **ADATUM\\AdatumAdmin**
Password: **Pa55w.rd**
You must have bash for windows enabled to successfully complete this lab.
For more information about how to enable the bash script, see:
**Installation Guide**
[*https://aka.ms/szyaef*](https://aka.ms/szyaef)

## Exercise 1: Build a language application

### Scenario
In the first scenario, you will use the Cognitive Services LUIS in a hotel booking bot. You will make a LUIS application that the bot will use to look up the prices and reviews of hotels in any geography.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:
1. Build a LUIS application to search for hotels in any geography
2. Install and configure Internet Information Services
3. Using LUIS with bot framework

#### Task 1: Build a LUIS application to search for hotels in any geography
01. Sign in to LUIS at **http://luis.ai**.
02. Create a LUIS app using the bootstrap key.
03. Add three intents to the newly created app:
    - Help
    - SearchHotels
    - ShowHotelsReviews
04. Add two custom simple entities:
    - Hotel
    - AirportCode
05. Add the prebuilt **geography** entity.
06. Add the following utterances to the **Help** intent:
    - What can I do?
    - Help me!
    - What are the available options?
    - I need help
07. Add the following utterances to the **SearchHotels** intent:
    - Look for hotels in Miami
    - Search for hotels in Seattle
    - Show me hotels in California
    - Find hotels near *eze*
    - Where can I stay near *nnn*?
    - Show hotels near *att* airport
    - Find hotels near *agl*
08. Mark the *italicized* portions of the sentence above as the **AirportCode** entity. This is done by selecting the word on the utterances page.
09. Add the following utterances to the **ShowHotelsReviews** intent:
    - Show me the reviews of the amazing *bot resort*
    - Can I see the reviews of the extended *bot hotel*?
    - Find reviews of *hotelxya*
    - Show me reviews of the *amazing hotel*
10. Mark the *italicized* portions as the entity **Hotel**.
11. Add a phrase list, named **near**, with the following values:
    - near
    - around
    - close
    - nearby
12. Add another phrase list, named **show**, with the following values:
    - show
    - find,
    - look
    - search
13. Add a pattern feature, named “**AirportCodeRegex**” with “[a-z]{3}” as the pattern.
14. Train and publish your LUIS app.

#### Task 2: Install and configure Internet Information Services
-   Using the Windows Control Panel, install Internet Information Services. Include the following application development features:
    - .NET Extensibility 4.6
    - ASP.NET 4.6

#### Task 3: Using LUIS with bot framework
01. Using Internet Explorer, install the **Bot Framework Emulator** located at **https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/bot-framework/debug-bots-emulator**.
02. Open the Visual Studio Solution- LuisBot from the labs folder. Run Visual Studio as administrator.
03. Navigate to **RootLuis Dialog**. Add your AppID and subscription key to this class. Your AppID can be found on the dashboard for your published LUIS app. The subscription key is found under **My Keys** on luis.ai.
04. Using the project properties editor, change the web server settings to run the application on the local IIS instance with the URL **http://localhost/LuisBot**. Create the virtual directory for the application.
05. Press F5 or the debug play button to start the solution.
06. Wait for the browser window to open, and then in the **Bot Framework Emulator** connect to the URL **http://localhost/LuisBot/api/messages**.
07. Type **hello** to begin communicating with LUIS.
08. Try typing queries like **Fancy hotel near ATL** or **Show hotels**.
09. Navigate to luis.ai and select your model. From the **Dashboard**, select **Suggested utterances**. Here you will see each of the sentences you submitted, select one of the sentences to show LUIS’s response. For many users, this is a great place to increase the accuracy of the LUIS API and bot.
10. Close the Bot Framework Emulator.

**Results**: At the end of this exercise, you will have created a LUIS application to search for hotels in any geography.

## Exercise 2: Build a face detection application

### Scenario
In this exercise, you will build a simple windows application that invokes the Face API to detect and frame faces in an image.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:
1. Use the Face API in a Visual Studio application
2. Add face detection to an application

#### Task 1: Use the Face API in a Visual Studio application
1.  Use the Azure Portal to create a Cognitive Services account with the following parameters:
    -   Account name: **&lt;yourname-CS1&gt;**
    -   Subscription: **&lt;your classroom subscription&gt;**
    -   Location : **&lt;your nearest location&gt;**
    -   Pricing Tier : **S0**
    -   New Resource Group: **&lt;yourname-CS1RG&gt;**
2.  When the service has been created, retrieve the Face API key.
3.  Create a new C\# WPF application in Visual Studio. Name the project FaceAnalyzer and the solution FaceAnalyzer.sln.
4.  Open the **MainWindow.xaml** file and replace the existing code with code **Snippet 1** from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab11\\Starter\\Ex2\\CodeSnippets.txt** to create the window UI.
5.  Open **MainWindow.xaml.cs**, and insert code **Snippet 2** inside the **MainWindow** class. This is the code for the '**Browse**' button.
6.  Press F5 to start the solution and upload the photo **MSC13\_Everald\_03.jpg** in the **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab11\\Starter\\Ex2\\** folder to see it displayed. Next, you will add the functionality to detect faces.

#### Task 2: Add face detection to an application
1.  Open the **NuGet Package Manager** window for the solution, select **nuget.org** as your **Package** source, search for **Microsoft.ProjectOxford.Face** and install.
2.  Open **MainWindow.xaml.cs**, and add the code in **Snippet 3** to the beginning of the file.
3.  Insert code **Snippet 4** to the **MainWindow** class directly above the **MainWindow** constructor. Update the **key** value to your **Face API Key**.
4.  Insert code **Snippet 5** into the **MainWindow** class to detect faces. This code utilizes the Face-Detect API, which is the most straightforward way to detect a face.
5.  Add the **async** modifier to the **BrowseButton\_Click** function:
```
	private async void BrowseButton_Click(object sender, RoutedEventArgs e)
	{
	var openDlg = new Microsoft.Win32.OpenFileDialog();
```
6.  Add code **Snippet 7** to the bottom of the **BrowseButton\_Click**. This code draws a frame around detected faces.
7.  Press Play or F5 to run the solution.
8.  Test the application using the files **MSC13\_Everald\_03.jpg**, **MSC13\_Louis\_04.jpg**, and **OFC16\_Meeting\_002.jpg** in the **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab11\\Starter\\Ex2** folder.

**Results**: At the end of this exercise, you will have created a face detection application, using the Face API.

## Exercise 3: Build a recommendation application

### Scenario
In the third exercise, you will create a recommendation for an e-commerce store. The recommendations model will be interacted with via curl requests from a bash windows script.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:
1. Install Bash
2. Configure the recommendations model
3. Call the Recommendation API using the curl command

#### Task 1: Install Bash
1.  Enable **Developer mode**. Ensuring that Windows Update is configured correctly.
2.  Install the **Windows Subsystem for Linux (Beta)**.
3.  Open Bash, and configure for root user.
4.  Close Bash.

#### Task 2: Configure the recommendations model
1.  In the **Portal.Azure.com** add a **Recommendations AP**I account with the following parameters:
    - Account name: **&lt;yourname-CS2&gt;**
    - Subscription: **&lt;your classroom subscription&gt;**
    - Location : **&lt;your nearest location&gt;**
    - Pricing Tier : **S1**
    - New Resource Group: **&lt;yourname-CS2RG&gt;**
2. When the service has been created, retrieved the API key.
3.  Navigate to **https://recommendations-portal.azurewebsites.net***,* enter your account key, and log in.
>**Note:** Your login might fail initially, as it can take up to 10 minutes for your account to be registered. If the login fails, wait a few minutes and try again.
4.  On the **Projects** page, add a project called **MyModel1**.
5.  Open the catalog file from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab11\\Starter\\Ex3**. Note the structure of the file and the items listed. This is the product list for the Microsoft online store.
6.  Upload the catalog file **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab11\\Starter\\Ex3\\catalog.csv**.
7.  Upload usage files **usageA.csv**, **usageB.csv**, **usageC.csv**, and **usageD.csv** located in the **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab11\\Starter\\Ex3** folder.
8.  Build the model, and make a note of the Model ID when the build is complete. The Model ID is a GUID displayed in the page heading.

#### Task 3: Call the Recommendation API using the curl command
-   Use the bash shell to call the recommendation API using the following curl command (replacing **&lt;your API key&gt;** with the API key, and **&lt;Model ID&gt;** with the Model ID GUID):
    ```
	curl -v -X GET "https://westus.api.cognitive.microsoft.com/recommendations/v4.0/models/<ModelID>/recommend/item?itemIds=5C5-00025&numberOfResults=3&minimalScore=.01" -H "Ocp-Apim-Subscription-Key: <your API key>"
    ```
The above command can be copied from: **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab11\\Starter\\Ex3\\CurlCmd.txt**.
Verify that this curl command lists item-item recommendations.

**Results**: At the end of this exercise, you will have created a recommendation model and interacted with it using curl requests.

**Question:** In exercise 1, does the Cognitive Services LUIS search Bing for hotel reviews?

©2017 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
