# Module 1: Introduction to Machine Learning
# Lab: Introduction to machine learning

### Scenario
You work as a data scientist for Adatum Consultants. The company provides machine learning services and advice to help clients understand and visualize their data, discover patterns and correlations, and determine the optimum ways to present the data to be consumed by users and applications. You will be using Machine Learning with your clients, so to familiarize yourself with this environment, you need to start by creating a Machine Learning Studio workspace, and then exploring a sample machine learning model.

### Objectives
After completing this lab, you will be able to:
-   Sign up for a Machine Learning Studio account and create a free workspace.
-   Explore a sample machine learning experiment.

### Lab Setup
Estimated Time: 30 minutes
Virtual machine: **20774A-LON-DEV**
Username: **ADATUM\\AdatumAdmin**
Password: **Pa55w.rd**

## Exercise 1: Sign up for a Machine Learning Studio account

### Scenario
Before you can start using Machine Learning with your clients, you need to create your own Machine Learning Studio workspace. In this exercise, you will sign up for a Machine Learning Studio account and workspace.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:
1. Create a new Microsoft account (if you have not already completed this step)
2. Activate an Azure Learning Pass (if you have not already completed this step)
3. Create a Machine Learning Studio workspace

#### Task 1: Create a new Microsoft account (if you have not already completed this step)
1.  Go to **https://signup.live.com**.
2.  Create an account with the following information:
    -   A first name and last name.
    -   A username, such as **Course20774a-&lt;*date*&gt;-&lt;*your name*&gt;.outlook.com**.
    -   A password.
    -   Your local country/region.
    -   A birthdate and gender.
    -   The country code for your mobile phone.
    -   The number of your mobile phone.
    -   An existing email address.
3.  Confirm that the account has been created.

#### Task 2: Activate an Azure Learning Pass (if you have not already completed this step)
1.  Go to **http://www.microsoftazurepass.com/learning**.
2.  Enter your country, and your Azure Pass Promo Code.
3.  Submit the following information, and activate the pass:
    - **First Name**, **Last Name**, and **Organizational account**, using the details of the Microsoft account that you created previously.
4.  Enter the following information, agree to the terms and conditions, and sign up:
    -   The country you entered previously, and the same **First Name**, **Last Name**, and **Email address**.
    -   The number of your mobile phone.
5.  If you receive an error message or are unable to complete the process, refer to **https://www.microsoftazurepass.com/howto** for alternative activation steps.
6.  When the activation process is complete, go to **http://azure.microsoft.com**, select the **Portal**, and sign in using the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure Learning Pass subscription.
7.  Close any welcome messages, and close Internet Explorer, closing all tabs.

#### Task 3: Create a Machine Learning Studio workspace
1.  Go to **https://studio.azureml.net**.
2.  Sign up for a free Machine Learning Studio workspace.
3.  If you are prompted for credentials, use the details of the Microsoft account that you created previously.
4.  Confirm that the workspace is called **&lt;*your name*&gt;-Free-Workspace**.

**Results**: At the end of this exercise, you will have a working Machine Learning Studio account and workspace.

## Exercise 2: Explore a sample machine learning experiment

### Scenario
Before you can start using Machine Learning with clients, you need to familiarize yourself with this environment, by exploring a sample machine learning model. In this exercise, you will explore the Quantile Regression: car price regression sample experiment—this experiment makes predictions of the 25th, 50th and 75th percentiles for car prices, based on a range of other attributes.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:
1. Open the Quantile Regression: car price regression sample experiment
2. View the Quantile Regression: car price regression sample experiment
3. Evaluate the Quantile Regression: car price regression sample experiment

#### Task 1: Open the Quantile Regression: car price regression sample experiment
-   In the **Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio** workspace, open the following sample experiment:
    - **Quantile Regression: Car price prediction** (note: if there are two similar experiments displayed, select the experiment with the most recent date).
Note that this experiment starts with a dataset **Automobile price data (Raw)**, and then includes a range of modules.

#### Task 2: View the Quantile Regression: car price regression sample experiment
1.  Note the green check against all modules, which indicates that they have successfully finished.
2.  In the **Properties** pane, note the start and end times, and the status code; this shows when the experiment was last run, and whether the run was successful.
3.  Visualize the output from the **Score Model** module.
4.  Locate the price and scores columns; the scores columns show the 25th, 50th and 75th percentiles for the price.
5.  View the statistics and visualizations for the price column.
6.  Close the visualization.

#### Task 3: Evaluate the Quantile Regression: car price regression sample experiment
1.  Visualize the output from the **Evaluate Model** module.
2.  Sign out of Machine Learning Studio.

**Results**: At the end of this exercise, you will have explored an example machine learning experiment.

**Question:** How would you explain to someone who is not a data scientist the significance of the 25th, 50th, and 75th percentiles you looked at in the sample experiment?

**Question:** From your own experience, can you think of another application for the Quantile Regression model that you looked at in the sample experiment?

©2017 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
