# Module 7: Using Classification and Clustering with Azure Machine Learning Models

## Lab: Using classification and clustering with Machine Learning models

### Exercise 1: Apply Azure ML Studio modules for classification

#### Task 1: Create a machine learning experiment

1. On the **20774A-LON-DEV** virtual machine, ensure that you are logged in as **ADATUM\\AdatumAdmin**.
2. On the Start menu, start to type **Internet Explorer**, and then click **Internet Explorer**.
3. In the address bar, type **https://studio.azureml.net/**.
4. On the **Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio** page, click **Sign In**. 
5. If you are prompted for credentials, use the details of the Microsoft account that you created for this course.
6. Ensure that **EXPERIMENTS** is selected in the navigation pane, and then click **+ NEW**.
7. Click **Blank Experiment**.

#### Task 2: Select the data

01.  From the experiment items, expand **Saved Datasets**.
02. Expand **Samples**.
03. Drag the **Blood donation data** dataset to the workspace near the top.
04. From the experiment items, expand **Data Transformation**.
05. Expand **Manipulation**.
06. Drag **Select Columns in Dataset** below the **Blood donation data** dataset on the workspace.
07. Drag the output from **Blood donation data** to the input for **Select Columns in Dataset**.
08. Click **Select Columns in Dataset** and, in **Properties**, click **Launch column selector**.
09. Under **AVAILABLE COLUMNS**, select the first item, press SHIFT and select the last item.
10. Click the arrow to move the items to **SELECTED COLUMNS**.
11. Click the tick on the bottom right of the dialog box.

#### Task 3: Split the data

1.  From the experiment items, expand **Data Transformation**.
2. Expand **Sample and Split**.
3. Drag **Split Data** below the **Select Columns in Dataset** module on the workspace.
4. Select the **Split Data** module.
5. In **Properties**, change the **Fraction of rows in the first output dataset** value to **0.75**.
6. Drag the output from the Select columns in dataset module to the Split Data module.

#### Task 4: Visualize a trained model

01.  From the experiment items, expand **Machine Learning**, expand **Initialize Model**, and expand **Classification**.
02. Drag **Multiclass Decision Forest** to your workspace to the left of the **Split Data** module.
03. From the experiment items, expand **Machine Learning** and expand **Train**.
04. Drag **Train Model** to your workspace beneath **Split Data**.
05. Drag the left result dataset from **Split Data** to the right-hand input for **Train Model**.
06. Drag the output from **Multiclass Decision Forest** to the left-hand input for **Train Model**.
07. Click **Train Model** and, in **Properties**, click **Launch column selector**.
08. In **Press enter to enter column name**, select or type **Class**.
09. Click the tick on the bottom right of the dialog box.
10. Click the **Multiclass Decision Forest** module.
11. In **Properties**, change **Number of decision trees** to **1** and change **Maximum depth of the decision trees** to **4**.
12. Right-click **Train Model** and click **Run selected**.
13. When the model run has completed, right-click **Train Model**, point to **Trained model**, and click **Visualize**.
14. Note the factors that result in a Class of 1.

#### Task 5: Evaluate a model

01.  From the experiment items, expand **Machine Learning** and expand **Score**.
02. Drag **Score Model** to your workspace beneath **Train Model**.
03. Drag the output from **Train Model** to the left-hand input of **Score Model** and drag the right-hand output of **Split Data** to the right-hand input of **Score Model**.
04. Right-click **Score Model** and click **Run selected**.
05. When the model run has completed, right-click **Score Mode**l, point to **Scored dataset**, and click **Visualize**.
06. Click **Recency** and note that the chances of giving blood relate to how recently you gave blood.
07. Close the visualization.
08. From the experiment items, expand **Machine Learning**, expand **Evaluate**, and drag **Evaluate Model** to the workspace beneath **Score Model**.
09. Drag the output from **Score Model** to the left-hand input of **Evaluate Model**.
10. Right-click **Evaluate Model** and click **Run selected**.
11. When the model run has completed, right-click **Evaluate Model**, point to **Evaluation results**, and click **Visualize**.
12. Note the accuracy of the model.
13. Close the visualization by clicking the x at the top-right of the window.

>**Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have deployed and evaluated a clustering model.

### Exercise 2: Working with K-Means clustering

#### Task 1: Create a machine learning experiment

1. On the 20774A-LON-DEV virtual machine, open Internet Explorer and browse to **https://studio.azureml.net**.
2. On the Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio page, click **Sign in here**.
3. Sign in with your Microsoft account credentials to Machine Learning Studio.
4. Ensure that **EXPERIMENTS** is selected in the navigation pane, and then click **+ NEW** to create an experiment.
5. Click **Blank Experiment**.

#### Task 2: Select the data

01.  From the experiment items, expand **Saved Datasets**.
02. Expand **Samples**.
03. Drag the **MPG Data for various automobiles** dataset to the workspace near the top.
04. From the experiment items, expand **Data Transformation**, expand **Manipulation**, and drag **Select Columns in Dataset** beneath **MPG Data for various automobiles**.
05. Drag the output from **MPG Data for Various automobiles** to the input for **Select Columns in Dataset**.
06. Click **Select Columns in Dataset**.
07. In **Properties**, click **Launch column selector**.
08. In **AVAILABLE COLUMNS**, select **MPG** and click the button to add this to **SELECTED COLUMNS**.
09. Repeat step 8 for **Horsepower**, **Weight**, and **Model**.
10. Click the tick to confirm the selected columns.

#### Task 3: Apply Clustering

01.  From the experiment items, expand **Machine Learning**, expand **Initialize Model**, expand **Clustering**, and drag **K-Means Clustering** to the workspace adjacent to **Select Columns in Dataset**.
02. From the experiment items, expand **Machine Learning**, expand **Train**, and drag **Train Clustering Model** to the workspace beneath **Select Columns in Dataset**.
03. From the experiment items, expand **Machine Learning**, expand **Initialize Model**, expand **Clustering**, and drag **K-Means Clustering** to the workspace to the left of **Select Columns in Dataset**.
04. Click **K-Means Clustering** and, in **Properties**, change **Number of Centroids** to **4**.
05. Drag the output from K**-Means Clustering** to the left input of **Train Clustering Model**.
06. Drag the output of **Select Columns in Dataset** to the right input of **Train Clustering Model**.
07. Click **Train Clustering Model**, and, in **Properties**, click **Launch column selector**.
08. Type **MPG**, **Horespower**, **Weight**, and **Model** and click the tick on the bottom right of the dialog box.
09. From the experiment items, expand **Machine Learning**, expand **Score**, and drag **Assign Data to Clusters** to the workspace beneath **Train Clustering Model**.
10. Drag the left-hand output from **Train Clustering Model** to the left-hand input of **Assign Data to Clusters**.
11. Drag the right-hand output from **Train Clustering Model** to the right-hand input of **Assign Data to Clusters**.
12. Right-click **Assign Data to Clusters** and click **Run selected**.
13. When the model has run, from the experiment items, expand **Data Transformation**, expand **Manipulation**, and drag **Select Columns in Dataset** beneath **Assign Data to Clusters**.
14. Drag the output from **Assign Data to Clusters** to the input of **Select Columns in Dataset**.
15. Click the lower **Select Columns in Datase**t module and, in **Properties**, click **Launch column selector**.
16. Select **Assignments** and click the arrow to add it to **SELECTED COLUMNS**.
17. Repeat Step 16 for **Model**.
18. Click the tick to confirm the selected columns.
19. Right-click the lower **Select Columns in Dataset** and click **Run selected**.
20. When the model has run, right-click the lower **Select Columns in Dataset**, point to **Results dat**aset, and click **Visualize**.
21. Click the **Model** column and, in **Visualizations**, change **compare to** to **Assignments**.
22. Scroll across to view the clusters that various models have been assigned to.
23. Close the visualization by clicking the x at the top-right of the window.

>**Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have clustered automobile data into four groups.

©2017 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
