# Module 11: Using Cognitive Services

## Lab: Using Cognitive Services

### Exercise 1: Build a language application

#### Task 1: Build a LUIS application to search for hotels in any geography

01. On the **20774A-LON-DEV** virtual machine, ensure that you are logged in as **ADATUM\\AdatumAdmin**.
02. On the Start menu, start to type **Internet Explorer**, and then click **Internet Explorer**.
03. In the address bar, type **http://luis.ai**.
04. Click **Sign in or create an account**.
05. Sign in using the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure Learning Pass subscription.
06. If this is the first time you have singed in, complete the **Welcome to Language Understanding** page, and then press **Continue**.
07. Click **New App**. Use any name you’d like and choose **bootstrap** for your **Key to use**, and then click **Create**.
08. In the left-hand side menu, click **Intents**.
09. Click **Add Intent**.
10. Type **Help**, and then click **Save**.
11. Repeat steps 8 to 10 for the following Intents:
  1. **SearchHotels**
  2. **ShowHotelsReviews**
12. In the left-hand side menu, click **Entities**.
13. Click **Add** **custom entity**.
14. In the **Entity name** box, type **Hotel**, ensure **Simple** is selected, and then click **Save**.
15. Repeat steps 13 to 14 for the following simple entity named **AirportCode**.
16. Click **Add** **prebuilt entity**.
17. Select the **geography** entity, and then click **Save**.
18. In the left-hand side menu, click **Intents**, and then click **Help**.
19. Add the following utterances to **Help** by typing them in the box and pressing Enter:
  1. What can I do?
  2. Help me!
  3. What are the available options?
  4. I need help
20. Click **Save**.
21. In the left-hand side menu, click **Intents**, and then click **SearchHotels**.
22. Add the following utterances to **SearchHotels** by typing them in the box and pressing Enter.
  1. Look for hotels in Miami
  2. Search for hotels in Seattle
  3. Show me hotels in California find hotels near *eze*
  4. Where can I stay near *nnn*?
  5. Show hotels near *att* airport
  6. Find hotels near *agl*
23. Click on the *italicized* words and then click **AirportCode** to assign them to the entity.
24. Click **Save**.
25. In the left-hand side menu, click **Intents**, and then click **ShowHotelsReviews**.
26. Add the following utterances to the **ShowHotelsReviews** intent:
  1. Show me the reviews of the amazing *bot resort*
  2. Can I see the reviews of extended *bot hotel*?
  3. Find reviews of *hotelxya*
  4. Show me reviews of the *amazing hotel*
27. Click on the *italicized* words and then click **Hotel** to assign them to the entity.
28. Click **Save**.
29. In the left-hand side menu, click **Features**, and then click **Add phrase list**.
30. Name the phrase list **near**.
31. In the **Value** box, type **near**, and then press Enter.
32. Repeat step 32 for the following values, and then click **Save**:
  1. around
  2. close
  3. nearby
33. Click **Add phrase list**, name the phrase list **show**.
34. Add the following values, and then click **Save**:
  1. show
  2. find
  3. look
  4. search
35. On the **Features** page, click **Pattern features**.
36. Add **Pattern Feature**.
37. Call the pattern feature **AirportCodeRegex**, and provide **[a-z]{3}** as the pattern, and then click **Save**.
38. In the left-hand side menu, click **Train & Test**, and then click **Train**.
39. When trained, type **Are there Hotels near SFO**?. LUIS will recognize that sentence as having the intent of search hotels with some confidence.
40. In the left-hand side menu, click **Publish App**, and then click **Publish** to publish the LUIS app.

#### Task 2: Install and configure Internet Information Services

1.  On the **20774A-LON-DEV** virtual machine, right-click the Start menu, and then click **Control Panel**.
2. In the Control Panel, click **Programs**.
3. Under **Programs and Features**, click **Turn Windows features on or off**.
4. In the **Windows Features** dialog box, click **Internet Information Services**.
5. Expand **Internet Information Services**, expand **World Wide Web Services**, expand **Application Development Features**, check **.NET Extensibility 4.6** and **ASP.NET 4.6** (this will cause other options to be selected as well), and then click **OK**.
6. Wait while IIS is installed, and then close Control Panel.

#### Task 3: Using LUIS with bot framework

01.  Using Internet Explorer, browse to **https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/bot-framework/debug-bots-emulator**.
02. Click **Prerequisites**, and then click the **emulator download page** link.
03. In the Internet Explorer message box, click **Run**.
04. If the **Window Security Alert** dialog box appears, click **Allow access**.
05. Start **Visual Studio** as **administrator** and open **LuisBot.sln** from the **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab11\\Starter\\Ex1\\intelligence-LUIS** folder.
06. Navigate to **RootLuis Dialog**. Add your AppID and subscription key to this class. Your AppID can be found on the dashboard for your published LUIS app. The subscription key is found under **My Keys** on **http://luis.ai**.
07. In Solution Explorer, right-click the **LuisBot** project and then click **Properties**.
08. In the **LuisBot** properties editor, click the **Web** tab.
09. In the **Servers** section, in the drop-down list box, select **Local IIS**.
10. In the **Project Url** box, enter **http://localhost/LuisBot**, and then click **Create Virtual Directory**.
11. In the **Microsoft Visual Studio** dialog box, click **OK**.
12. Press F5 or the debug play button to start the solution, and wait for the browser window to open.
13. In the **Bot Framework Emulator**, in the **Enter your endpoint URL** box, type **http://localhost/LuisBot/api/messages** and then press Enter.
14. In the **Type your message** box, type **hello** to begin communicating with LUIS.
15. Try typing queries like **Fancy hotel near ATL** or **Show hotels**.
16. Navigate to **http://luis.ai** and select your model. From the **Dashboard**, select **Suggested utterances**. Here you will see each of the sentences you submitted, select one of the sentences to show LUIS’s response. For many users, this is a great place to increase the accuracy of the LUIS API and bot.
17. Close the Bot Framework Emulator.

>**Results**: At the end of this exercise, you will have created a LUIS application to search for hotels in any geography.

### Exercise 2: Build a face detection application

#### Task 1: Use the Face API in a Visual Studio application

01.  In Internet Explorer, open a new tab, navigate to **https://portal.azure.com**.
02. If prompted, sign in using the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure Learning Pass subscription.
03. Click **+**, and then click **AI + Cognitive** **Services**.
04. Click **Face API**
05. Create a new Cognitive Services API account with the following parameters:
  - Account name: **<yourname-CS1>**  
  - Subscription: <your classroom subscription>
  - Location: <your nearest location>
  - Pricing Tier: S0
  - New Resource Group: <yourname-CS1RG>
06. Select the confirmation box, and then click **Create**.
07. After the Cognitive Service is created, click **All Resources**, click your Cognitive Services account, click **Show access keys**, and copy the value shown for **KEY 1** to the clipboard.
08. Open Visual Studio if it is not already running.
09. On the **File** menu, click **New** and then click **Project**.
10. In the **New Project** dialog box, click **Visual C\#**, and then click **WPF Application**.
11. Name the application **FaceAnalyzer**, check the '**Create directory for solution**' check box, name the solution **FaceAnalyzerSln**, and then click **OK**.
12. In Solution Explorer, double-click **MainWindow.xaml**.
13. In the XAML pane, replace the existing code with code **Snippet 1** from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab11\\Starter\\Ex2\\CodeSnippets.txt** to create the window UI.
14. In Solution Explorer, expand **MainWindow.xaml**, and then double-click **MainWindow.xaml.cs**
15. Insert code **Snippet 2** from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab11\\Starter\\Ex2\\CodeSnippets.txt** inside the **MainWindow** class, under the **MainWindow()* constructor, as below:
  ```
    namespace FaceAnalyzer
    {
      /// <summary>
      /// Interaction logic for MainWindow.xaml
      /// </summary>
      public partial class MainWindow : Window
      {
        public MainWindow()
        {
          InitializeComponent();
        }

        // insert code below

        private void BrowseButton_Click(object sender, RoutedEventArgs e)
        {
          var openDlg = new Microsoft.Win32.OpenFileDialog();
          openDlg.Filter = "JPEG Image(*.jpg)|*.jpg";
          bool? result = openDlg.ShowDialog(this);
          if (!(bool)result)
          {
            return;
          }
          string filePath = openDlg.FileName;
          Uri fileUri = new Uri(filePath);
          BitmapImage bitmapSource = new BitmapImage();
          bitmapSource.BeginInit();
          bitmapSource.CacheOption = BitmapCacheOption.None;
          bitmapSource.UriSource = fileUri;
          bitmapSource.EndInit();
          FacePhoto.Source = bitmapSource;
        }
      }
    }
  ```
16. Press F5 to start the solution.
17. Click **Browse**, and upload the image **MSC13\_Everald\_03.jpg**in the **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab11\\Starter\\Ex2\\** folder to see it displayed.
18. Close the application, but leave Visual Studio open.

#### Task 2: Add face detection to an application

01.  In the Solution Explorer, right-click the **FaceAnalyzer** project, and then click **Manage NuGet Packages**.
02. In the **NuGet Package Manager** window, select **nuget.org** as your **Package** source, click **Browse**, and then search for the package **Microsoft.ProjectOxford.Face**
03. Select the **Microsoft.ProjectOxford.Face** package, and then click **Install**.
04. In the **Preview** dialog box, click **OK**.
05. In the **License Acceptance** dialog box, click **I Accept**.
06. Open **MainWindow.xaml.cs**, add the code **Snippet 3** from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab11\\Starter\\Ex2\\CodeSnippets.txt** using directives to the beginning of the file.
07. Insert code **Snippet 4** from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab11\\Starter\\Ex2\\CodeSnippets.txt** to the **MainWindow** class, directly above the **MainWindow** constructor, as shown below:

  ~~~
  public partial class MainWindow : Window
    {
      //Replace the word key with your Face API subscription key.
      private readonly IFaceServiceClient faceServiceClient = new FaceServiceClient("key");
        public MainWindow()
        {
          InitializeComponent();
        }
  ~~~
08. Change the **key** value in this code to your **Face API Key**.
09. Insert the code **Snippet 5** from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab11\\Starter\\Ex2\\CodeSnippets.txt** into the **MainWindow** class, directly after the **BrowseButton\_Click** method.
10. Add the **async** modifier to the **BrowseButton\_Click** function as highlighted below in bold:
  ~~~  
  private async void BrowseButton_Click(object sender, RoutedEventArgs e)
  {
      var openDlg = new Microsoft.Win32.OpenFileDialog();         
  ~~~
11. Add the code **Snippet 7** from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab11\\Starter\\Ex2\\CodeSnippets.txt** to the end of the **BrowseButton\_Click**, as shown below in bold:
  ```
  private async void BrowseButton_Click(object sender, RoutedEventArgs e)
  {
      var openDlg = new Microsoft.Win32.OpenFileDialog();
      openDlg.Filter = "JPEG Image(*.jpg)|*.jpg";
      bool? result = openDlg.ShowDialog(this);
      if (!(bool)result)
      {
          return;
      }
      string filePath = openDlg.FileName;
      Uri fileUri = new Uri(filePath);
      BitmapImage bitmapSource = new BitmapImage();
      bitmapSource.BeginInit();
      bitmapSource.CacheOption = BitmapCacheOption.None;
      bitmapSource.UriSource = fileUri;
      bitmapSource.EndInit();
      FacePhoto.Source = bitmapSource;
      Title = "Detecting...";
      FaceRectangle[] faceRects = await UploadAndDetectFaces(filePath);

      // Instert code below

      Title = String.Format("Detection Finished. {0} face(s) detected", faceRects.Length);
      if (faceRects.Length > 0)
      {
          DrawingVisual visual = new DrawingVisual();
          DrawingContext drawingContext = visual.RenderOpen();
          drawingContext.DrawImage(bitmapSource,
              new Rect(0, 0, bitmapSource.Width, bitmapSource.Height));
          double dpi = bitmapSource.DpiX;
          double resizeFactor = 96 / dpi;
          foreach (var faceRect in faceRects)
          {
              drawingContext.DrawRectangle(
                  Brushes.Transparent,
                  new Pen(Brushes.Red, 2),
                  new Rect(
                      faceRect.Left * resizeFactor,
                      faceRect.Top * resizeFactor,
                      faceRect.Width * resizeFactor,
                      faceRect.Height * resizeFactor
                      )
              );
          }
          drawingContext.Close();
          RenderTargetBitmap faceWithRectBitmap = new RenderTargetBitmap(
              (int)(bitmapSource.PixelWidth * resizeFactor),
              (int)(bitmapSource.PixelHeight * resizeFactor),
              96,
              96,
              PixelFormats.Pbgra32);
          faceWithRectBitmap.Render(visual);
          FacePhoto.Source = faceWithRectBitmap;
      }
  }
  ```
12. Press Play or F5 to run the solution.
13. Test the application using the files **MSC13\_Everald\_03.jpg**, **MSC13\_Louis\_04.jpg**, and **OFC16\_Meeting\_002.jpg** in the **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab11\\Starter\\Ex2** folder.
14. Close the application when you have finished.

>**Results**: At the end of this exercise, you will have created a face detection application, using the Face API.

### Exercise 3: Build a recommendation application

#### Task 1: Install Bash

01.  Click **Start**, type **Services**, and then press Enter.
02. Right-click **Windows Update**, and then click **Properties**.
03. In the **Windows Updated Properties (Local Computer)** dialog box, in the **Startup type** list, click **Manual**, and then click **Apply**.
04. Click **Start**, and then click **Settings**.
05. In Windows Settings, click **Update & security**, and then click **For developers**.
06. Under **Use developer features**, click **Developer mode**.
07. In the **Use developer features** dialog box, click **Yes**.
08. Wait until the **Developer Package** has been installed.
09. Close Settings.
10. In the **Windows Updated Properties (Local Computer)** dialog box, in the **Startup type** list, click **Disabled**, and then click **OK**.
11. If the Windows Update service is running, right-click **Windows Update**, and then click **Stop**.
12. Close Services.
13. Right-click **Start**, and then click **Control Panel**.
14. Click **Programs**, and then click **Turn Windows Features on or off**.
15. In the **Windows Features** dialog box, select the **Windows Subsystem for Linux (Beta)** check box, and click **OK**.
16. In the **Windows Features** dialog box, click **Restart now**.
17. The **20774A-LON-DEV** virtual machine will restart and update with the new feature; this process may take several minutes.
18. Log in to the **20774A-LON-DEV** virtual machine as **Adatum\\AdatumAdmin** with a password of **Pa55w.rd**.
19. Open a command prompt, type **bash**, and then press Enter.
20. As this is the first use, type **Y**, and press Enter; Ubuntu for Windows will now download, this process may take several minutes.
21. At the command prompt, type **root**, and then press Enter.
22. At the command prompt, type **exit**, and then press Enter.
23. Close the command prompt.

#### Task 2: Configure the recommendations model

01.  In Internet Explorer, in the Azure portal **https://portal.azure.com**, click **+**
02. In the search box, type **Recommendations API** and then press Enter.
03. Click **Recommendations API**.
04. Click **Create**, and then specify the following parameters:
  - Account name: **<yourname-CS2>**
  - Subscription: **<your classroom subscription>**
  - Location : **<your nearest location>**
  - Pricing Tier : **S1**
  - New Resource Group: **<yourname-CS2RG>**
05. Select the confirmation box, and then click **Create**.
06. After the Cognitive Service is created, click **All Resources**, click your new Cognitive Services account, click **Show access keys**, and copy the value shown for **KEY 1** to the clipboard.
07. Navigate to **https://recommendations-portal.azurewebsites.net**, enter your API key, and then click **Login**.
>**Note:** Your login might fail initially, as it can take up to 10 minutes for your account to be registered. If the login fails, wait a few minutes and try again.
08. On the **Projects** page, in the text box type **MyModel1** and then click **ADD PROJECT**
09. Under **Step 1: Add a catalog file**, click **BROWSE FOR FILE**, and upload the file **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab11\\Starter\\Ex3\\catalog.csv**.
10. Under **Step 2: Add usage files**, click **BROWSE FOR FILE**, and upload the file **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab11\\Starter\\Ex3\\usageA.csv**.
11. Repeat the previous step and upload the files **usageB.csv**, **usageC.csv**, and **usageD.csv**.
12. Click **NEW BUILD**.
13. Select **Recommendation** for the build model type, and then click **BUILD**.
14. Wait for the model to be built.
15. Make a note of the Model ID. You can find this in the page heading. It is a GUID.

#### Task 3: Call the Recommendation API using the curl command

1.  Open a command prompt and enter the bash shell by typing **bash**.
2. In the bash terminal, type the following command (replacing **\<your API key\>** with the API key, and **\<Model ID\>** with the Model ID GUID), and press Enter:
```
curl -v -X GET "https://westus.api.cognitive.microsoft.com/recommendations/v4.0/models/<ModelID>/recommend/item?itemIds=5C5-00025&numberOfResults=3&minimalScore=.01" -H "Ocp-Apim-Subscription-Key:  <your API key>"
```
  The above command can be copied from: **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab11\\Starter\\Ex3\\CurlCmd.txt**. Verify that this curl command lists item-item recommendations.

>**Results**: At the end of this exercise, you will have created a recommendation model and interacted with it using curl requests.

©2017 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
