# Module 13: Using R services with Machine Learning

## Lab: Using R Services with Machine Learning

### Exercise 1: Deploy the Data Science virtual machine

#### Task 1: Retrieve your AzureML workspace credentials

1. On the **20774A-LON-DEV** virtual machine, ensure that you are logged in as **ADATUM\\AdatumAdmin**.
2. Start Internet Explorer, and in the address bar, type **https://studio.azureml.net**.
3. On the **Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio** page, click **Sign In**.
4. If you are prompted for credentials, use the details of the Microsoft account that you created for this course.
5. In Azure Machine Learning Studio, click **DATASETS**.
6. Select any of your datasets, and then click **GENERATE DATA ACCESS CODE.**
7. In the **Generate Data Access Code** window, click the **R** tab.
8. Copy the statement in the R code snippet that creates the workspace object to the clipboard. The statement should look like this (the **id** and **auth** keys are not displayed in the code below, and your **api\_endpoint** might be different from that shown):
```
ws <- workspace(
id = "...",
auth = "...",
api_endpoint = "https://europewest.studioapi.azureml.net"
)
```

####   Task 2: Deploy the Data Science virtual machine

01. In Internet Explorer, in the address bar, type **https://studio.azureml.net**.
02. If you are prompted for credentials, use the details of the Microsoft account that you created for this course.
03. In the Azure Portal, in the left pane, click **+NEW**.
04. Click **Compute**, and then click **See all**.
05. In the images list, click **Data Science Virtual Machine for Windows**, and then click **Create**.
06. On the **Basics** blade, enter the following information, and then click **OK**:
 - Name: **dsvm&lt;*date*&gt;** (this name cannot be longer than 15 characters)
 - Virtual machine disk type: **SSD**
 - User name: **dsadmin**
 - Password: **Pa55w.rdPa55w.rd**
 - Confirm password: **Pa55w.rdPa55w.rd**
 - Subscription: **Azure Pass**
 - Resource group: (Create new) **dsvmrg**
 - Location: ***Your location***
07. On the **Choose a size** blade, click **View all**, click **DS2 Standard**, and then click **Select**.
08. On the **Settings** blade, leave all settings at their defaults, and then click **OK**.
09. On the **Summary** blade, click **OK**.
10. On the **Purchase** blade, select the permission check box, and then click **Purchase**.
11. Wait until the deployment has successfully completed before continuing with this exercise.

####   Task 3: Explore the Data Science virtual machine

01. After the Data Science virtual machine has been deployed, the **Overview** blade should be displayed in the Azure Portal. If you do not see this blade, click **All resources**, and then click your Data Science virtual machine.
02. On the **Overview** blade, click **Connect**, and then in the dialog box, click **Open**.
03. In the dialog box, click **OK**.
04. dialog box, select the **Don’t ask me again for connections to this computer** check box, and then click **Connect**.
05. In the **Windows Security** dialog box, click **More choices**, and then click **Use a different account**.
06. Enter the following credentials, and then click **OK**:
 - User name: **dsadmin**
 - Password: **Pa55w.rdPa55w.rd**
07. In the **Remote Desktop Connection** dialog box, select the **Don’t ask me again for connections to this computer** check box, and then click **Yes**.
08. Note that there are shortcuts to various tools on the desktop.
09. On the desktop, double-click **Jupyter Set Password & Start**.
10. In the **Jupyter Set Password & Start** console session, at the **Enter password** prompt, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then press Enter.
11. At the **Verify password** prompt, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then press Enter.
12. Press any key to continue the script, and then press Enter to close the console session.
13. On the desktop, double-click **Jupyter Notebook** to open **https://localhost:9999** in Internet Explorer.
14. If you get a certificate error, click **Continue to this website**.
15. In the **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then click **Log in**.
16. On the Jupyter page, there is a list of example notebooks; if the page does not show this list, wait a few minutes. It should automatically appear.
17. Click **Introduction to Azure ML R notebooks.ipynb**.
18. Wait for the notebook to load; this may take a few minutes.
19. Read the introduction, click in the first cell, and then press Shift+Enter.
20. Click in the next cell, and then press Shift+Enter.
21. Scroll down to the code cell below the section entitled **Publishing a web service**.
22. In this cell, replace the code in the else part of the code with the statement that you copied to the clipboard in task 1. The complete code for the cell should look like this (with your own id, authorization code, and API endpoint):
```
# load the library
library(AzureML)
# If you use workspace() in a Jupyter notebook, you don't need to specify credentials,
# since the settings are stored for you in a local file.
# If you use this function on your own machine, specify your credentials. See ?workspace.
if(file.exists("~/.azureml/settings.json")){
ws <- workspace()
} else {
**ws <- workspace(**
**id = "...",**
**auth = "… ",**
**api_endpoint = "https://europewest.studioapi.azureml.net"**
**)**
}
# define predict function
mypredict <- function(newdata){
predict(lm1, newdata)
}
# a sample with predictor information
newdata <- Boston[1:5, ]
# test the prediction function
data.frame(
actual = newdata$medv,
prediction = mypredict(newdata))
```
23. Click **Cell**, and then click **Run All** to run the entire notebook.
24. Note the output of the notebook.
25. Close Internet Explorer.

> **Results**: At the end of this exercise, you will have deployed the Data Science virtual machine from the Azure Portal, and explored some of the available tools, including sample Jupyter notebooks.

### Exercise 2: Prepare a sample SQL Server database, and configure SQL Server and R Server

####   Task 1: Configure a SQL Server database

01. On **20774A-LON-DEV**, on the taskbar, click **File Explorer**.
02. In File Explorer, navigate to **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab13**, right-click **WideWorldImportersDW-Full.bak**, and then click **Copy**.
03. Switch to the RDP session on the Data Science virtual machine.
04. On the Data Science virtual machine, on the taskbar, click **File Explorer**.
05. In File Explorer, navigate to **D:\\**, and then click **Paste**. Wait until the file has copied successfully before continuing.
06. On the Data Science virtual machine, on the desktop, double-click **SQL Server Management Studio**.
07. In the **Connect to Server** dialog box, click **Connect**.
08. In Object Explorer, right-click **Databases**, and then click **Restore Database**.
09. In the **Restore Database** dialog box, click **Device**, and then click the ellipsis (**…**).
10. In the **Select backup devices** dialog box, click **Add**.
11. In the **Locate Backup File** dialog box, navigate to **D:\\**, click **WideWorldImportersDW-Full.bak**, and then click **OK**.
12. In the **Select backup devices** dialog box, click **OK**.
13. In the **Restore Database** dialog box, in the **Select a page** section, click **Files**.
14. Select the **Relocate all files to folder** check box, and then click **OK**.
15. The restore will take several minutes to complete.
16. When it is finished, in the **Microsoft** **SQL Server Management Studio** dialog box, click **OK**.

####   Task 2: Configure SQL Server to allow execution of R on the Data Science virtual machine

1. In SQL Server Management Studio, click **New Query**.
2. On the query page, type the following statement, and then click **Execute**.
```
sp_configure
```
3. Note the value for the **external scripts enabled** property. If it is 0, then perform the following steps:

  1. On the query page, replace the previous statement, type the following statement, and then click **Execute** to enable external scripting.
  ```
  Exec sp_configure 'external scripts enabled', 1 Reconfigure with override
  ```
  2. In Object Explorer, right-click the server instance, and then click **Restart**.
  3. In the **Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio** dialog box, click **Yes**.
  4. In the next **Microsoft SQL Server Management Studio** dialog box, click **Yes**.
  5. Wait until there is a green arrow on the icon next to the server name, indicating that the server restarted successfully, before continuing with this exercise.
  6. On the query page, type the following statement, and then click **Execute** to enable external scripting.
  ```
  Exec sp_configure 'external scripts enabled'
  ```
  7. Verify that the value has been set to **1**.
4. Minimize SQL Server Management Studio.

####   Task 3: Configure R Server

01. On the Data Science virtual machine, on the desktop, double-click **Microsoft-R-Admin-Util**.
02. In the **Administrator Utility** command window, type **1**, and then press Enter to select **Configure R Server for Operationalization**.
03. In the **Administrator Utility** command window, type **A**, and then press Enter to select **One-box (web + compute nodes)**.
04. In the **Administrator Utility** command window, at the **Set the admin password:** prompt, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then press Enter.
05. In the **Administrator Utility** command window, at the **Confirm this password:** prompt, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then press Enter.
06. The configuration process may take several minutes to complete.
07. In the **Administrator Utility** command window, type **E**, and then press Enter to select **Return to main menu**.
08. Note that the web node endpoint is **http://localhost:12800/**.
09. In the **Administrator Utility** command window, type **6**, and then press Enter to select **Run Diagnostic Tests**.
10. In the **Administrator Utility** command window, type **A**, and then press Enter to select **Test configuration**.
11. In the **Administrator Utility** command window, at the **Username:** prompt, type **admin**, and then press Enter.
12. In the **Administrator Utility** command window, at the **Password:** prompt, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then press Enter.
13. Confirm that **Overall Health** = **pass** is shown.
14. In the **Administrator Utility** command window, type **E**, and then press Enter to select **Return to main menu**.
15. In the **Administrator Utility** command window, type **8**, and then press Enter to exit.
16. Minimize the remote desktop session.

> **Results**: At the end of this exercise, you will have configured a SQL Server database on this virtual machine, enabled remote script execution for this database instance, and configured R Server for remote access.

### Exercise 3: Use a remote R session

####   Task 1: Enable remote access to R Server

01. On **20774A-LON-DEV**, in Internet Explorer, in the Azure Portal, click **All resources**, and then click the network security group associated with the Data Science virtual machine. It will be named **dsvm&lt;*date*&gt;-nsg**.
02. On the named **dsvm&lt;*date*&gt;-nsg** blade, click **Inbound security rules**.
03. Click **+ Add**.
04. Enter the following information, and then click **OK**:
 - Name: **Rserver**
 - Priority: &lt;default&gt;
 - Source: **Any**
 - Service: **Custom**
 - Protocol: **TCP**
 - Port range: **12800**
 - Action: **Allow**
05. In the Azure Portal, click **All resources**, and then click the Data Science virtual machine.
06. On the **Overview** page, make a note of the value for **Public IP address**.
07. Minimize Internet Explorer.
08. On the Start menu, type **RGui**, and then press Enter.
09. In the R console, type the following command (replacing &lt;IP address&gt; with the address of your Data Science virtual machine), and then press Enter.
```
remoteLogin("&lt;IP address&gt;:12800", username = "admin", password = "Pa55w.rd", diff = TRUE, session = TRUE, commandline = TRUE)
```
10. The above command can be copied from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab13\\RemoteCmds1.txt**.
11. If this command is successful, you will have connected to the remote instance of R Server.

####   Task 2: Execute R commands in a remote session

01. All of the following commands can be copied from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab13\\RemoteCmds2.txt**.
02. On **20774A-LON-DEV**, in the R console, type the following command, and then press Enter.
```
pause()
```
This switches to a local R session.
03. In the R console, type the following command, and then press Enter.
```
resume()
```
This switches back to the remote R session.
04. In the R console, type the following command, and then press Enter.
```
iris
```
This shows the raw iris dataset.
05. In the R console, type the following command, and then press Enter.
```
iris$Petal.Width
```
This shows only the petal width data.
06. In the R console, type the following command, and then press Enter.
```
data(iris)
```
This loads the dataset.
07. In the R console, type the following command, and then press Enter.
```
head(iris)
```
This shows the top results in the dataset.
08. In the R console, type the following command, and then press Enter.
```
summary(iris)
```
This shows a summary of the dataset.
09. In the R console, type the following commands, and then press Enter.
```
library(scatterplot3d)
scatterplot3d(iris[,1:3], color=as.integer(iris$Species))
```
This shows the dataset as a scatter plot.
10. In the R console, type the following command, and then press Enter.
```
hist(iris$Petal.Width, breaks=20, col="green")
```
This shows the data in a colored histogram.
11. In the R console, type the following command, and then press Enter.
```
plot(x=iris$Petal.Length, y=iris$Petal.Width, col=iris$Species)
```
12. This plots the principal components in the dataset.
13. In the R console, type the following commands, and then press Enter.
```
iris_discrete <- data.frame(
Sepal.Length= cut(iris$Sepal.Length, breaks=3,
labels=c("small", "medium", "large"), ordered=TRUE),
Sepal.Width= cut(iris$Sepal.Width, breaks=3,
labels=c("small", "medium", "large"), ordered=TRUE),
Petal.Length= cut(iris$Petal.Length, breaks=3,
labels=c("small", "medium", "large"), ordered=TRUE),
Petal.Width= cut(iris$Petal.Width, breaks=3,
labels=c("small", "medium", "large"), ordered=TRUE),
Species = iris$Species
)
```
This separates the data into discrete labels: small, medium, and large.

14. In the R console, type the following command, and then press Enter.
```
head(iris_discrete)
```
This shows the discrete data.
15. In the R console, type the following command, and then press Enter.
```
table(iris_discrete$Sepal.Length)
```
This shows the discrete data in a table.
16. In the R console, type the following command, and then press Enter.
```
barplot(table(iris_discrete$Sepal.Length))
```
This shows the discrete data as a bar chart.
17. In the R console, type the following command, and then press Enter.
```
exit
```
18. Close the R console without saving any changes.

> **Results**: At the end of this exercise, you will have enabled remote access for R Server, and tested access by using a remote R Client.

### Exercise 4: Execute R scripts inside T-SQL statements

####   Task 1: Execute a T-SQL script to check for pick length

1. In SQL Server Management Studio, in Object Explorer, ensure that **WideWorldImportersDW** is selected.
2. Click New Query.
3. Copy and paste the following code into the query.
```
USE [WideWorldImportersDW];
GO
CREATE PROC get_pick_length
AS
BEGIN
    EXEC sp_execute_external_script
        @language = N'R'
        , @script = N'res <-quantile(InputDataSet$TimeToPick);
            df <- data.frame(res);'
        , @input_data_1 = N'SELECT datediff(DAY, [Order Date Key], [Picked Date Key]) as TimeToPick FROM [Fact].[Order]
        WHERE DATEDIFF(DAY, [Order Date Key], [Picked Date Key]) > 0;'
        , @output_data_1_name = N'df'
        WITH RESULT SETS (("TimeToPick" float not null));
END;
GO
```
4. The above command can be copied from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab13\\SqlCmd1.txt**.
5. Click **Execute**.
6. Click New Query.
7. Copy and paste the following code into the query.
```
Exec get_pick_length
```
8. Click **Execute**.
9. View the results in the SQL Server Management Studio response window.

####   Task 2: Use R to visualize data

01.  In SQL Server Management Studio, in Object Explorer, ensure that **WideWorldImportersDW** is selected.
02. Click New Query.
03. Copy and paste the following code into the query.
```
CREATE PROCEDURE [dbo].[TimetoPickHistogram]
AS
BEGIN
    SET NOCOUNT ON;
    DECLARE @query nvarchar(max) =
    N'SELECT datediff(DAY, [Order Date Key], [Picked Date Key]) as TimeToPick FROM [Fact].[Order]
      WHERE DATEDIFF(DAY, [Order Date Key], [Picked Date Key]) > 0;'
      EXECUTE sp_execute_external_script @language = N'R',
      @script = N'
      image_file = tempfile();
      jpeg(filename = image_file);
      #Plot histogram
      rxHistogram(~TimeToPick, data=InputDataSet, col=''lightblue'',
      title = ''Time to Pick Histogram'', xlab =''Time to Pick'', ylab =''Counts'');
      dev.off();
      OutputDataSet <- data.frame(data=readBin(file(image_file, "rb"), what=raw(), n=1e6));
      ',
      @input_data_1 = @query
      WITH RESULT SETS ((plot varbinary(max)));
END
GO
```
04. The above command can be copied from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab13\\SqlCmd2.txt**.
05. Click **Execute**.
06. Click New Query.
07. Copy and paste the following code into the query.
```
EXEC [dbo].[TimetoPickHistogram]
```
08. The above command can be copied from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab13\\SqlCmd3.txt**.
09. Click **Execute**.
10. On the taskbar, click **Windows PowerShell**.
11. At the Windows PowerShell prompt, type the following command (replacing &lt;*server*&gt; with the name of your Data Science virtual machine, such as dsvm&lt;*date*&gt;), and then press Enter.
```
bcp "exec TimetoPickHistogram" queryout "plot.jpg" -S &lt;server&gt; -d WideWorldImportersDW -T
```
12. The above command can be copied from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab13\\PsCmd1.txt**.
13. After the command executes, press Enter at each prompt to accept the defaults, except for this change:
 - prefix-length of field plot: **0**
14. At the save the format information prompt, type **Y**, and then press Enter.
15. Type a suitable name, and then press Enter.
16. On the taskbar, click **File Explorer**, and then navigate to **C:\\Users\\dsadmin**.
17. Double-click **plot.jpg** to view the output.

> **Results**: At the end of this exercise, you will have executed R scripts by using T-SQL statements.

©2017 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
