# Module 6: Building Azure Machine Learning Models
# Lab: Building Machine Learning models

### Scenario
You work as a data scientist for Adatum Consultants, a company that provides machine learning services and advice for a range of clients. One of your clients is looking to use machine learning for insights from operational data sources throughout their organization. Your first thought is that models based on some form of regression or neural networks may be useful.
You are working with a team of business analysts who will be building the final models. You are following the recommended steps of the Team Data Science Process. As part of the TDSP, you will perform some model development steps, as per the Modeling phase of the process. You will be using Machine Learning with this team, so, to familiarize yourself with this environment, you need to explore the steps required to use regression and neural network algorithms in Machine Learning Studio.

### Objectives
After completing this lab, you will be able to:
-   Use regression analysis in Machine Learning Studio.
-   Use neural networks in Machine Learning Studio.

### Lab Setup
Estimated Time: 60 minutes
Virtual machine: **20774A-LON-DEV**
User name: **ADATUM\\AdatumAdmin**
Password: **Pa55w.rd**

## Exercise 1: Use regression analysis in Machine Learning Studio

### Scenario
Before you can start building Machine Learning models for your clients, you need to understand how to use and evaluate the various types of algorithm available. In this exercise, you will build an experiment that uses two regression algorithms: boosted decision tree regression and linear regression. You will use an income census dataset, remove some irrelevant features (work class, occupation, and native country), and evaluate these regression methods as predictors of income levels.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:
1. Use boosted decision tree regression in an experiment
2. Add linear regression to an experiment

#### Task 1: Use boosted decision tree regression in an experiment
01. Drag the **Adult Census Income Binary Classification** dataset module into your experiment’s workspace.
02. Add a **Clean Missing Data** module, use the default settings to replace missing values with zeros, and then connect the output of the dataset module to the input port of the **Clean Missing Data** module.
03. Add an **Edit Metadata** module, and then connect the output of the **Clean Missing Data** module to the input port of the **Edit Metadata** module.
04. Use the column selector to exclude these columns: **workclass**, **occupation**, and **native-country**.
05. Add a **Split** **Data** module to divide the data into the training and test sets. Set the **Fraction of rows in the first output dataset** value to **0.7**.
06. Connect the output of the **Edit Metadata** module to the input of the **Split Data** module.
07. Add a **Boosted Decision Tree Regression** module.
08. Add a **Train Model** module, configure this module for the **income** column only, and then connect it to the output of the **Boosted Decision Tree Regression** module and to the training set.
09. Add a **Score Model** module, and then connect the trained model and the test set.
10. Add an **Evaluate Model** module, and then connect the **Score Model** module to the left input port.
11. Save the experiment as **Regression Example**.
12. Run the experiment.
13. Click the **Evaluate Model** module, and then select **Visualize** to see the results.
14. The **Boosted Decision Tree** **Regression** module is fairly accurate in predicting income for the **Adult Census Income** **Binary Classification** dataset module. The coefficient of determination (R<sup>2</sup>) is just under 0.5, and there is a low mean absolute error.

#### Task 2: Add linear regression to an experiment
1.  In the **Regression Example** experiment, add a **Linear Regression** module.
2.  Add a **Train Model** module, configure this module for the **income** column only, and then connect it to the **Linear Regression** module and to the training set.
3.  Add a **Score Model** module, and then connect the trained model and the test set.
4.  Connect the output of the **Score Model** module to the right node of the **Evaluate Model** module.
5.  Save the experiment, and then run it.
6.  When the experiment has finished running, click the output node of the **Evaluate Model** module, and then click **Visualize**.
7.  The linear regression evaluation is shown on the right. Note that this modeling technique does not appear to be as accurate as the boosted decision tree regression. The linear regression has a slightly higher mean absolute error, a higher root-mean-square error, and a lower coefficient of determination (R<sup>2</sup>) when compared to the boosted decision tree regression on the left.

**Results**: At the end of this exercise, you will have run an experiment using both **Boosted Decision Tree Regression** and **Linear Regression** modules, evaluated the results, and compared the results from both these regression methods.

## Exercise 2: Use neural networks in Machine Learning Studio

### Scenario
In this exercise, you will build an experiment that uses the **Neural Network: 1 hidden layer** sample in the Gallery to investigate neural network components in more detail. The dataset for this experiment is from MNIST, and consists of 70,000 grayscale images of hand-written digits. The experiment evaluates the success of an algorithm in analyzing images (imported as numbers) and recognizing them as hand-written digits.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:
1. Use a multiclass neural network in an experiment
2. Evaluate a neural network experiment

#### Task 1: Use a multiclass neural network in an experiment
1.  In Machine Learning Studio, load the **Neural Network: 1 hidden layer** experiment from the Gallery.
2.  Run the experiment.
3.  Visualize the outputs of the **MNIST Train 60k 28x28 dense** and **MNIST Train 10k 28x28 dense** modules. Note that there are no column names and the data is ones and zeros.
4.  In the **Multiclass Neural Network** module, note the following:
    -   A pictures input is defined in the Neural Network Definition section.
    -   The number of learning iterations is set to 30, which means that the model will process the data 30 times before reaching a result.
5.  In the **Train Model** module, note that **Label** is selected and that this will be the result of the analysis.

#### Task 2: Evaluate a neural network experiment
1.  In the **Neural Network: 1 hidden layer** experiment, visualize the output of the **Evaluate Model** module. Note that the confusion matrix, which plots the actual outputs against the predicted outputs, shows very high predictions, which are highlighted in blue diagonally down the matrix. These results show that the predictions are nearly 100 percent correct.
2.  In the **Execute R Script** module, note the R script, which calculates the accuracy of the image recognition.
3.  Visualize the output of the **Execute R Script** module, and note the accuracy value (F1 score) of 0.977. This is a very high F1 score—nearly 100 percent—which suggests that this is a successful model.

**Results**: At the end of this exercise, you will have run an experiment using the **Multiclass Neural Network** module and evaluated the results.

**Question:** How important is it to understand the various regression algorithms before starting to build a model? Why?

**Question:** In your organization, can you think of any application that would benefit from an approach based on neural networks?

©2017 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.