# Module 13: Using R services with Machine Learning
# Lab: Using R Services with Machine Learning

### Scenario
You work as a data scientist for Adatum Consultants, a company that provides machine learning services and advice for a range of clients. One of your clients is Wide World Importers, who are planning the deployment of applications that use SQL Server data and R scripts. You have decided to do a small proof of concept before working with this client.

You are going to ramp up quickly with the Data Science virtual machine. As a first step, you will need to deploy the virtual machine from the Azure Portal. After you have deployed the Data Science virtual machine from the Azure Portal, you can explore some of the tools available. You will also configure a test database, using data supplied by Wide World Importers, and enable SQL Server to accept external scripts. Finally, you will configure R Server, and enable remote access from machines running R Client.

You will also test the use of R commands in a remote session, and the execution of R scripts inside T-SQL statements.

### Objectives
After completing this lab, you will be able to:
-   Deploy the Data Science virtual machine.
-   Prepare a sample SQL Server database, and configure SQL Server and R Server.
-   Use a remote R session.
-   Execute R scripts inside T-SQL statements.

### Lab Setup
Estimated Time: 90 minutes
Virtual machine: **20774A-LON-DEV**
User name: **ADATUM\\AdatumAdmin**
Password: **Pa55w.rd**

## Exercise 1: Deploy the Data Science virtual machine

### Scenario
In this exercise, you are going to ramp up quickly with the Data Science virtual machine. As a first step, you will need to deploy the virtual machine from the Azure Portal. After you have deployed the Data Science virtual machine from the Azure Portal, you can explore some of the tools available. Note that some of these tools require access to data held in your Azure Machine Learning workspace, so you need to retrieve these credentials.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:
1. Retrieve your AzureML workspace credentials
2. Deploy the Data Science virtual machine
3. Explore the Data Science virtual machine

#### Task 1: Retrieve your AzureML workspace credentials
1.  Using Internet Explorer, log in to Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio.
2.  Move to the Datasets list, select any of your datasets, and click **GENERATE DATA ACCESS CODE**.
3.  In the **Generate Data Access Code** window, copy the statement in the R code snippet that creates the workspace object to the clipboard. The statement should look like this (the **id** and **auth** keys are not displayed in the code below, and your **api\_endpoint** might be different from that shown):
    ```
	ws <- workspace(
	id = "...",
	auth = "...",
	api_endpoint = "https://europewest.studioapi.azureml.net"
	)
    ```
#### Task 2: Deploy the Data Science virtual machine
1.  Using the Azure Portal, create a virtual machine using the **Data Science Virtual Machine for Windows** image, with the following settings:
    -   Name: **dsvm&lt;*date*&gt;** (this name cannot be longer than 15 characters)
    -   Virtual machine disk type: **SSD**
    -   User name: **dsadmin**
    -   Password: **Pa55w.rdPa55w.rd**
    -   Confirm password: **Pa55w.rdPa55w.rd**
    -   Subscription: **Azure Pass**
    -   Resource group: (Create new) **dsvmrg**
    -   Location: ***Your location***
    -   Size: **DS2 Standard**
2.  Wait until the deployment has successfully completed before continuing with this exercise.

#### Task 3: Explore the Data Science virtual machine
01. Open a remote desktop connection to the Data Science virtual machine, using the following credentials:
    -   User name: **dsadmin**
    -   Password: **Pa55w.rdPa55w.rd**
02. Note that there are shortcuts to various tools on the desktop.
03. On the desktop, open **Jupyter Set Password & Start**, and then use the password **Pa55w.rd**.
04. On the desktop, open **Jupyter Notebook** to open **https://localhost:9999** in Internet Explorer.
05. If you get a certificate error, click **Continue to this website**.
06. On the Jupyter page, there is a list of example notebooks; if the page does not show this list, wait a few minutes. It should automatically appear.
07. Open **Introduction to Azure ML R notebooks.ipynb**.
08. Wait for the notebook to load; this may take a few minutes.
09. Read the introduction, click in the first cell, and then press Shift+Enter.
10. Click in the next cell, and then press Shift+Enter.
11. After the Data Science virtual machine has been deployed, the **Overview** blade should be displayed in the Azure Portal. If you do not see this blade, click **All resources**, and then click your Data Science virtual machine.
12. On the **Overview** blade, click **Connect**, and then in the dialog box, click **Open**.
13. In the dialog box, click **OK**.
14. In the **Remote Desktop Connection** dialog box, select the **Don’t ask me again for connections to this computer** check box, and then click **Connect**.
15. In the **Windows Security** dialog box, click **More choices**, and then click **Use a different account**.
16. Enter the following credentials, and then click **OK**:
-   User name: **dsadmin**
-   Password: **Pa55w.rdPa55w.rd**
17. In the **Remote Desktop Connection** dialog box, select the **Don’t ask me again for connections to this computer** check box, and then click **Yes**.
18. Note that there are shortcuts to various tools on the desktop.
19. On the desktop, double-click **Jupyter Set Password & Start**.
20. In the **Jupyter Set Password & Start** console session, at the **Enter password** prompt, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then press Enter.
21. At the **Verify password** prompt, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then press Enter.
22. Press any key to continue the script, and then press Enter to close the console session.
23. On the desktop, double-click **Jupyter Notebook** to open **https://localhost:9999** in Internet Explorer.
24. If you get a certificate error, click **Continue to this website**.
25. In the **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rd**, and then click **Log in**.
26. On the Jupyter page, there is a list of example notebooks; if the page does not show this list, wait a few minutes. It should automatically appear.
27. Click **Introduction to Azure ML R notebooks.ipynb**.
28. Wait for the notebook to load; this may take a few minutes.
29. Read the introduction, click in the first cell, and then press Shift+Enter.
30. Click in the next cell, and then press Shift+Enter.
31. Scroll down to the code cell below the section entitled **Publishing a web service**.
32. In this cell, replace the code in the else part of the code with the statement that you copied to the clipboard in task 1. The complete code for the cell should look like this (with your own id, authorization code, and API endpoint):
    ```
	# load the library
	library(AzureML)
	# If you use workspace() in a Jupyter notebook, you don't need to specify credentials,
	# since the settings are stored for you in a local file.
	# If you use this function on your own machine, specify your credentials. See ?workspace.
	if(file.exists("~/.azureml/settings.json")){
	ws <- workspace()
	} else {
		ws <- workspace(
		id = "...",
		auth = "… ",
		api_endpoint = "https://europewest.studioapi.azureml.net"
		)
	}
	# define predict function
	mypredict <- function(newdata){
	predict(lm1, newdata)
	}
	# a sample with predictor information
	newdata <- Boston[1:5, ]
	# test the prediction function
	data.frame(
	actual = newdata$medv,
	prediction = mypredict(newdata))
    ```
33. Click **Cell**, and then click **Run All** to run the entire notebook.
34. Note the output of the notebook.
35. Close Internet Explorer.

**Results**: At the end of this exercise, you will have deployed the Data Science virtual machine from the Azure Portal, and explored some of the available tools, including sample Jupyter notebooks.

## Exercise 2: Prepare a sample SQL Server database, and configure SQL Server and R Server

### Scenario
In this exercise, you will configure a test database, **WideWorldImportersDW**, and enable SQL Server to accept external scripts. You will then configure R Server, and enable remote access from machines running R Client.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:
1. Configure a SQL Server database
2. Configure SQL Server to allow execution of R on the Data Science virtual machine
3. Configure R Server

#### Task 1: Configure a SQL Server database
1.  Copy **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab13\\WideWorldImportersDW-Full.bak** from **20774A-LON-DEV** to drive D on the Data Science virtual machine.
2.  On the Data Science virtual machine, open SQL Server Management Studio.
3.  Restore the **WideWorldImportersDW** database, ensuring that you use the **Relocate all files to folder** option.

#### Task 2: Configure SQL Server to allow execution of R on the Data Science virtual machine
1.  In SQL Server Management Studio, click **New Query**.
2.  On the query page, type the following statement, and then click **Execute**.
    ```
	sp_configure
    ```
3.  Note the value for the **external scripts enabled** property. If it is 0, then perform the following steps:
	a.  On the query page, replace the previous statement, type the following statement, and then click **Execute** to enable external scripting.
    ```
	Exec sp_configure 'external scripts enabled', 1 Reconfigure with override
	```
	b.  Restart the server instance, and then wait until the server has restarted successfully before continuing with this exercise.
	c.  On the query page, type the following statement, and then click **Execute** to enable external scripting.
	```
	Exec sp_configure 'external scripts enabled'
    ```
	d.  Verify that the value has been set to **1**.

#### Task 3: Configure R Server
1.  On the Data Science virtual machine, start Microsoft-R-Admin-Util.
2.  Configure R Server for operationalization by using **One-box (web + compute nodes)**, and then set the admin password to **Pa55w.rd**.
3.  Note that the web node endpoint is **http://localhost:12800/**.
4.  Select the option to **Run Diagnostic Tests**.
5.  Verify that **Confirm Overall Health = pass** is reported.
6.  Exit the Admin utility.

**Results**: At the end of this exercise, you will have configured a SQL Server database on this virtual machine, enabled remote script execution for this database instance, and configured R Server for remote access.

## Exercise 3: Use a remote R session

### Scenario
R Server is running on the Data Science virtual machine and listening on port 12800. Therefore, before you attempt to open a remote session, you need to configure the firewall in the network security group to accept inbound requests on this port.
You will then use R commands in a remote session to access the sample iris dataset, which contains petal and sepal measurements from three species of iris flowers.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:
1. Enable remote access to R Server
2. Execute R commands in a remote session

#### Task 1: Enable remote access to R Server
1.  On **20774A-LON-DEV**, in the Azure Portal, add an inbound security rule for the network security group associated with the Data Science virtual machine.
2.  Enter the following information for the rule:
    - Name: **Rserver**
    - Priority: &lt;default&gt;
    - Source: **Any**
    - Service: **Custom**
    - Protocol: **TCP**
    - Port range: **12800**
    - Action: **Allow**
3.  Make a note of the public IP address for the Data Science virtual machine.
4.  Run the **RGui** application.
5.  In the R console, type the following command (replacing &lt;IP address&gt; with the address of your Data Science virtual machine), and then press Enter.
    ```
	remoteLogin("<IP address>:12800", username = "admin", password = "Pa55w.rd", diff = TRUE, session = TRUE, commandline = TRUE)
    ```
6.  The above command can be copied from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab13\\RemoteCmds1.txt**.
7.  If this command is successful, you will have connected to the remote instance of R Server.

#### Task 2: Execute R commands in a remote session
01. All of the following commands can be copied from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab13\\RemoteCmds2.txt**.
02. On **20774A-LON-DEV**, in the R console, type the following command, and then press Enter.
    ```
	pause()
    ```
This switches to a local R session.
03. In the R console, type the following command, and then press Enter.
    ```
	resume()
    ```
This switches back to the remote R session.
04. In the R console, type the following command, and then press Enter.
    ```
	iris
    ```
This shows the raw iris dataset.
05. In the R console, type the following command, and then press Enter.
    ```
	iris$Petal.Width
    ```
This shows only the petal width data.
06. In the R console, type the following command, and then press Enter.
    ```
	data(iris)
    ```
This loads the dataset.
07. In the R console, type the following command, and then press Enter.
    ```
	head(iris)
    ```
This shows the top results in the dataset.
08. In the R console, type the following command, and then press Enter.
    ```
	summary(iris)
    ```
This shows a summary of the dataset.
09. In the R console, type the following commands, and then press Enter.
    ```
	library(scatterplot3d)
	scatterplot3d(iris[,1:3], color=as.integer(iris$Species))
    ```
This shows the dataset as a scatter plot.
10. In the R console, type the following command, and then press Enter.
    ```
	hist(iris$Petal.Width, breaks=20, col="green")
    ```
This shows the data in a colored histogram.
11. In the R console, type the following command, and then press Enter.
    ```
	plot(x=iris$Petal.Length, y=iris$Petal.Width, col=iris$Species)
    ```
12. This plots the principal components in the dataset.
13. In the R console, type the following commands, and then press Enter.
    ```
	iris_discrete <- data.frame(
	Sepal.Length= cut(iris$Sepal.Length, breaks=3,
	labels=c("small", "medium", "large"), ordered=TRUE),
	Sepal.Width= cut(iris$Sepal.Width, breaks=3,
	labels=c("small", "medium", "large"), ordered=TRUE),
	Petal.Length= cut(iris$Petal.Length, breaks=3,
	labels=c("small", "medium", "large"), ordered=TRUE),
	Petal.Width= cut(iris$Petal.Width, breaks=3,
	labels=c("small", "medium", "large"), ordered=TRUE),
	Species = iris$Species
	)
    ```
This separates the data into discrete labels: small, medium, and large.
14. In the R console, type the following command, and then press Enter.
    ```
	head(iris_discrete)
    ```
This shows the discrete data.
15. In the R console, type the following command, and then press Enter.
    ```
	table(iris_discrete$Sepal.Length)
    ```
This shows the discrete data in a table.
16. In the R console, type the following command, and then press Enter.
    ```
	barplot(table(iris_discrete$Sepal.Length))
    ```
This shows the discrete data as a bar chart.
17. In the R console, type the following command, and then press Enter.
    ```
	exit
    ```
18.Close the R console without saving any changes.

**Results**: At the end of this exercise, you will have enabled remote access for R Server, and tested access by using a remote R Client.

## Exercise 4: Execute R scripts inside T-SQL statements

### Scenario
In this exercise, you will execute R scripts inside T-SQL statements. You will use the **WideWorldImportersDW** database as the source dataset.

In the first task, you will run an R script to identify the amount of time taken to pick a product after it has been ordered. The output will be in text form.

In the second task, you will use an enhanced R function, **rxHistogram**, to plot a histogram using data retrieved from a Transact-SQL query. In this task, you will use a similar query to show the amount of time taken to pick products from the Wide World Importers Data Warehouse database, but this time, you will plot the results as a histogram. You will wrap the R function in a stored procedure, **TimetoPickHistogram**, to make it easier to call. This procedure will return image data in binary form, so you will use **bcp** save this data as an image file.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:
1. Execute a T-SQL script to check for pick length
2. Use R to visualize data

#### Task 1: Execute a T-SQL script to check for pick length
1.  In SQL Server Management Studio, copy and paste the following code into a new query against **WideWorldImportersDW**.
    ```
	USE [WideWorldImportersDW];
	GO
	CREATE PROC get_pick_length
	AS
	BEGIN
	EXEC sp_execute_external_script
	@language = N'R'
	, @script = N'res <-quantile(InputDataSet$TimeToPick);
	df <- data.frame(res);'
	, @input_data_1 = N'SELECT datediff(DAY, [Order Date Key], [Picked Date Key]) as TimeToPick FROM [Fact].[Order]
	WHERE DATEDIFF(DAY, [Order Date Key], [Picked Date Key]) > 0;'
	, @output_data_1_name = N'df'
	WITH RESULT SETS (("TimeToPick" float not null));
	END;
	GO
    ```
2.  The above command can be copied from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab13\\SqlCmd1.txt**.
3.  Execute this query, and then in a new query, copy and paste the following code.
    ```
	Exec get_pick_length
    ```
4.  Execute this query, and then view the results in the SQL Server Management Studio response window.

#### Task 2: Use R to visualize data
01. In SQL Server Management Studio, copy and paste the following code into a new query against **WideWorldImportersDW**.
    ```
	CREATE PROCEDURE [dbo].[TimetoPickHistogram]
	AS
	BEGIN
	SET NOCOUNT ON;
	DECLARE @query nvarchar(max) =
	N'SELECT datediff(DAY, [Order Date Key], [Picked Date Key]) as TimeToPick FROM [Fact].[Order]
	WHERE DATEDIFF(DAY, [Order Date Key], [Picked Date Key]) > 0;'
	EXECUTE sp_execute_external_script @language = N'R',
	@script = N'
	image_file = tempfile();
	jpeg(filename = image_file);
	#Plot histogram
	rxHistogram(~TimeToPick, data=InputDataSet, col=''lightblue'',
	title = ''Time to Pick Histogram'', xlab =''Time to Pick'', ylab =''Counts'');
	dev.off();
	OutputDataSet <- data.frame(data=readBin(file(image_file, "rb"), what=raw(), n=1e6));
	',
	@input_data_1 = @query
	WITH RESULT SETS ((plot varbinary(max)));
	END
	GO
    ```
02. The above command can be copied from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab13\\SqlCmd2.txt**.
03. Execute this query, and then in a new query, copy and paste the following code.
    ```
	EXEC [dbo].[TimetoPickHistogram]
    ```
04. The above command can be copied from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab13\\SqlCmd3.txt**.
05. Execute this query.
06. Start a Windows PowerShell session.
07. At the Windows PowerShell prompt, type the following command (replacing &lt;*server*&gt; with the name of your Data Science virtual machine, such as dsvm&lt;*date*&gt;), and then press Enter.
    ```
	bcp "exec TimetoPickHistogram" queryout "plot.jpg" -S <server> -d WideWorldImportersDW -T
    ```
08. The above command can be copied from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab13\\PsCmd1.txt**.
09. After the command executes, accept the defaults at each prompt, except for this change:
    - prefix-length of field plot: **0**
10. Save the format information, using a suitable name.
11. View the output graphic at **C:\\Users\\dsadmin\\plot.jpg**.

**Results**: At the end of this exercise, you will have executed R scripts by using T-SQL statements.

**Question:** Why do you need to add an inbound security rule before you can use remote R commands?

**Question:** Why might you select to use SSD storage when deploying an instance of the Data Science VM?

©2017 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
