# Module 2: Introduction to Azure Machine Learning
# Lab: Introduction to Machine Learning

### Scenario
You work as a data scientist for Adatum Consultants, a company that provides machine learning services and advice for a range of clients. Adatum Consultants helps these clients understand and visualize their data, discover patterns and correlations, and determine the optimum ways to present data to be consumed by users and applications. You will be using Machine Learning with your clients so, to familiarize yourself with this environment, you need to explore Machine Learning Studio workspaces—and then look at the cloning and managing of machine learning experiments.

### Objectives
After completing this lab, you will be able to:
 - Use Machine Learning Studio to create, manage, and share workspaces.
 - Clone and manage simple machine learning experiments.

### Lab Setup
Estimated Time: 45 minutes
Virtual machine: **20774A-LON-DEV**
User name: **ADATUM\\AdatumAdmin**
Password: **Pa55w.rd**

## Exercise 1: Using Machine Learning Studio

### Scenario
Before you can start using Machine Learning with your clients, you need to understand how to manage Machine Learning Studio workspaces. In this exercise, you will create, manage, and share workspaces.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:
1. Explore the Machine Learning Studio workspace
2. Create and manage a new standard workspace
3. Share a Machine Learning Studio workspace

#### Task 1: Explore the Machine Learning Studio workspace
01. Sign into Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio, using the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure Learning Pass subscription.
02. In the Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio workspace, verify that no projects are listed; you will create a project later in this lab.
03. Verify that you do not have any experiments; sample experiments provided by Microsoft are available.
04. Verify that no web services are listed; you will use web services to deploy experiments in later modules in this course.
05. Verify that no notebooks are listed; you will use Jupyter notebooks with R and Python scripts in later modules in this course.
06. Verify that no datasets are listed; you will upload your own datasets in later modules in this course.
07. Verify that no trained models are listed; you will train your models in later modules in this course.
08. Under **SETTINGS**, on the **NAME** tab, note that you can edit the workspace description, and view your workspace ID and the available storage for the workspace.
09. On the **AUTHORIZATION TOKENS** tab, note that there are two tokens, and that you have an option to regenerate these tokens.
10. Under **USERS**, note that currently you are the only user of this workspace; you will invite other users later in this exercise.
11. Under **DATA GATEWAYS**, there should be no data gateways listed; you will use gateways in later modules in this course.
12. Sign out of your Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio workspace, and close Internet Explorer.

#### Task 2: Create and manage a new standard workspace
1. Sign in to the Azure Portal, using the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure Learning Pass subscription.
2. In the Azure Portal, create a Machine Learning Workspace, using the following workspace information:
 - Workspace name: **&lt;*your name*&gt;-Standard-Workspace**
 - Subscription: **Azure Pass**
 - Resource group: **create new**
 - Location: **choose the nearest location**
 - Storage account: **create new** &lt;unique&gt;
 - Workspace pricing tier: **Standard**
 - Web service plan: **create new**
 - Web service plan pricing tier: **DevTest Standard**
3. In the new workspace, explore the overview and activity information.
4. Note the properties of the workspace, and the option to resync storage keys.
5. Open a new browser tab, and go to **Microsoft** **Azure Machine Learning Studio**.
6. Switch to your new standard workspace, and note there are no experiments associated with this workspace.
7. Switch to your new free workspace, and if you completed Module 1, you should see your experiments in this workspace.
8. In the Azure Portal, delete your standard workspace, then switch to the Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio, and confirm that the workspace is no longer available.

#### Task 3: Share a Machine Learning Studio workspace
1. Share your Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio workspace with the person next to you in the classroom.
2. Access the workspace that the person next to you in the classroom has shared with you.
3. Switch back to your own workspace.
4. Remove the shared user from your workspace.

**Results**: At the end of this exercise, you will have successfully managed your Machine Learning Studio workspace.

## Exercise 2: Clone and run a simple experiment

### Scenario
Before you can start using Machine Learning with your clients, you need to understand how to use sample experiments. In this exercise, you will clone and manage a simple machine learning experiment.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:
1. Clone an experiment
2. Manage a cloned experiment

#### Task 1: Clone an experiment
1. Clone the **Recommender: Movie recommendation** experiment, and save the copy as **My Movie Recommender**.
2. View the **Movie Ratings** dataset, and note that movies are identified by a number (**MovieId**), and that a rating of “10” is the most common.
3. View the **IMDB Movie Titles** dataset, and note that this dataset maps movie ID numbers to movie titles.

#### Task 2: Manage a cloned experiment
1. Run the **My Movie Recommender** experiment.
2. When the experiment has finished running, all modules will show a green check mark to indicate that they have successfully finished; a **Finished running** status is also shown in the upper-right corner of the workspace.
3. Add the **My Movie Recommender** experiment to a new **Movie Project** project.
4. Edit **Movie Project** to add the **Movie Tweets** dataset.
5. Sign out of Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio, and close Internet Explorer.

**Results**: At the end of this exercise, you will have cloned a Machine Learning experiment.

**Question:** How would you compare the sharing and tracking features in Machine Learning Studio with those in any source control software you have used?

**Question:** What are some of the key reasons why you might need to use standard workspaces, rather than free workspaces, in your organization?

©2017 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
