# Module 3: Managing Datasets

## Lab: Managing datasets

### Exercise 1: Preparing the lab

#### Task 1: Create Azure SQL Database

01. On the **20774A-LON-DEV** virtual machine, ensure that you are logged in as **ADATUM\\AdatumAdmin**.
02. On the Start menu, start to type **Internet Explorer**, and then click **Internet Explorer**.
03. In the address bar, type **http://azure.microsoft.com**, click **Portal**, and sign in using the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure Learning Pass subscription.
04. In the Azure Portal, in the left-hand pane, click **+New**.
05. Select **Databases**, and then select **SQL Database**.
06. Enter the following details, and then click **Server**:
  -  Database name: **WideWorldImporters-Standard**
  -  Resource group (create new): **&lt;*your name*&gt;rg**
  -  Select source: **Blank database**
07. On the **New server** pane, enter the following details, and then click **Select**:
 -  Server name: **&lt;*your name*&gt;&lt;*date*&gt;**
 -  Server admin login: **dbadmin**
 -  Password: **Pa55w.rd**
 -  Confirm password: **Pa55w.rd**
 -  Location: ***Select your region***
08. Click **Pricing tier**, click **Standard**, and then click the left-hand end of the **DTU slider**, so that the **DTU** box shows **10 (S0)**.
09. Click **Apply**.
10. Leave all other details at their defaults, and click **Create**.
11. Wait until you see a message that the deployment has been successful.
12. On the **WideWorldImporters-Standard** blade, click **Set server firewall**.
13. On the **Firewall settings** blade, click **Add client IP**, and then click **Save**, to add your current IP address to the list of allowed IP addresses.
14. Click **OK**, and then close the Firewall settings, and WideWorldImporters-Standard blades.

#### Task 2: Import data into Azure SQL Database

1. On the **20774A-LON-DEV** virtual machine, right-click **Start**, and then click **Command Prompt (Admin)**.
2. In the **User Account Control** dialog box, click **Yes**.
3. In the **Command Prompt** window, type the following command, and press Enter:
```
CD C:\Program Files (x86)\Microsoft SQL Server\130\DAC\Bin
```
4. In the **Command Prompt** window, type the following command (replacing *&lt;your db servername&gt;* with the name of your database server from the previous task), and press Enter:
```
SqlPackage.exe /a:import /tcs:"Data Source=&lt;*your db servername*&gt;.database.windows.net;Initial Catalog=WideWorldImporters-Standard;User Id=dbadmin;Password=Pa55w.rd" /sf:E:\\Labfiles\\Lab03\\WideWorldImporters-Standard.bacpac /p:DatabaseEdition=Standard /p:DatabaseServiceObjective=S0
```
5. The above command can be copied from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab03\\SqlPackageCmd.txt**
6. Wait until you get the following message:
```
Successfully imported database
```
7. Close the command prompt.

>**Results**: At the end of this exercise, you will have created an Azure SQL Database, and imported WideWorldImporters-Standard data into this database.

### Exercise 2: Importing data into Machine Learning

#### Task 1: Import data from a flat file

01. On the **20774A-LON-DEV** virtual machine, ensure that you are logged in as **ADATUM\\AdatumAdmin**.
02. On the Start menu, start to type **Internet Explorer**, and then click **Internet Explorer**.
03. In Internet Explorer, in the address bar, type **https://studio.azureml.net/**.
04. On the Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio page, click Sign In.
05. If you are prompted for credentials, use the details of the Microsoft account that you created for this course.
06. In Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio, ensure that **DATASETS** is selected in the navigation pane, then click **+New**.
07. Click **FROM LOCAL FILE**.
08. In the **Upload a new dataset** dialog box, click **Browse**.
09. In the **Choose file to upload** dialog box, navigate to **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab03**, and select **DimDate.csv**.
10. Click **Open**.
11. In the **ENTER A NAME FOR THE NEW DATASET** box, type **Date Dimensions**.
12. In the **SELECT A TYPE FOR THE NEW DATASET** list, select **Generic CSV File with no header (.nh.csv)**, and then click **Ok** (tick).

#### Task 2: Update an existing dataset

1. In Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio, ensure that **DATASETS** is selected in the navigation pane, then click **+New**.
2. Click **FROM LOCAL FILE**.
3. In the **Upload a new dataset** dialog box, click **Browse**.
4. In the **Choose file to upload** dialog box, navigate to **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab03**, and select **DimDate2.csv**.
5. Click **Open**.
6. Select the **This is the new version of an existing dataset** check box.
7. In the **EXISTING DATASET** list, select **Date Dimensions**.
8. In the **SELECT A TYPE FOR THE NEW DATASET** list, select **Generic CSV File with no header (.nh.csv)**, and then click **Ok**.

#### Task 3: Prepare Azure Blob storage

01. On the **20774A-LON-DEV** virtual machine, in Internet Explorer, click **+** to create a new tab.
02. In the address bar, type **http://azure.microsoft.com**, click **Portal**, and sign in using the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure Learning Pass subscription.
03. In the **Azure Portal**, in the left-hand pane, click **+New**.
04. Select Storage, and then click Storage account - blob, file, table, queue.
05. Enter the following details, and then click **Create**:
 -  Name: a unique name, such as: **&lt;*your name*&gt;&lt;*date*&gt;**
 -  Resource group (**Use existing**): Select the storage group you created earlier
 -  Leave all other details at their defaults
06. Wait until you see a message that the deployment has been successful.
07. In the left-hand pane, click **All resources**, and then click your new storage account.
08. Under Settings, click Access keys.
09. In the properties pane, next to **key1**, click the **Click to copy** icon.
10. On the Start menu, start to type **Azure Storage**, and then click **Microsoft Azure Storage Explorer**.
11. In the **Connect to Azure Storage** dialog box, ensure that **Add an** **Azure Account** is selected, and then click **Sign in**.
12. In the **Sign in to your account** dialog box, enter the credentials of the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure Learning Pass subscription, and click **Sign in**.
13. In Microsoft Azure Storage Explorer, under your Azure Learning Pass subscription, under **Storage Accounts**, expand the storage you created in Step 5.
14. Right-click **Blob Containers**, type **training**, and then press Enter.
15. In the right-hand pane, click **Upload**, and then click **Upload Files**.
16. In the **Upload files** dialog box, next to the **Files** box click the ellipses (**…**).
17. In the Select files to upload dialog box, browse to E:\\Labfiles\\Lab03, select DimDate.csv, and click Open.
18. In the click **Upload files** dialog box, click **Upload**; wait until the file has been uploaded before proceeding to the next step.
19. Close Microsoft Azure Storage Explorer.

#### Task 4: Import data from Azure Blob storage

01. In Internet Explorer, switch to Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio, ensure that **EXPERIMENTS** is selected in the navigation pane, then click **+ NEW**.
02. Click Blank Experiment.
03. In the **Search experiment items** box, type **Import**, and then from the module list, drag **Import Data** on to the experiment canvas.
04. In the right-hand **Properties** pane, in the **Data source** list, select **Azure Blob Storage**.
05. In the Authentication type list, select Storage Account.
06. In the **Account** **name** box, type the name of the storage account you created earlier.
07. In the **Account key** box, paste the storage access key that you copied earlier.
08. In the Path to container, directory, or blob box, type training/DimDate.csv.
09. In the **Blob file format** list, select **CSV**.
10. Select Use cached results.
11. Run the experiment, by clicking **RUN** at the bottom of the page.
12. When the experiment has finished running, all modules will show a green check mark to indicate that they have successfully finished; a Finished running status is also shown in the upper-right corner of the workspace.
13. Click **SAVE AS** at the bottom of the page.
14. In the **EXPERIMENT NAME** box, type **Import Data into Azure ML**, and click **Ok** (tick).

#### Task 5: Prepare the Azure SQL Database

01. In Internet Explorer, switch to the Azure Portal tab.
02. In the Azure Portal, in the **Navigation** pane, click **All resources**, and then click **WideWorldImporters-Standard**.
03. On the **Overview** pane, click **Tools**.
04. On the **Tools** pane, click **Query editor (preview)**.
05. In the **Preview terms** blade, select the **This is a preview feature** check box, and then click **OK**.
06. In the **Query editor (preview)**, click **Login**.
07. Enter the following details, and then click **OK**:
 -  Authorization type: **SQL server authentication**
 -  Login: **dbadmin**
 -  Password: **Pa55w.rd**
08. Click in line 1, type the following command, and then click **Run**:
```
CREATE SCHEMA [20774A] AUTHORIZATION db_owner;
GO
EXECUTE sp_addextendedproperty @name = N'Description',
@value = N'Schema for AzureML data import.', @level0type = N'SCHEMA', @level0name = N'20774A';
```
09. The above command can be copied from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab03\\SqlSchemaCmd.txt**
10. Delete the commands.
11. Click in line 1, type the following command, and then click **Run**:
```
IF EXISTS (SELECT * FROM sys.views WHERE name = '[CustomerTransactions]')
      DROP VIEW [20774A].[CustomerTransactions]
GO
CREATE VIEW [20774A].[CustomerTransactions]
AS
SELECT customers.CustomerName,
      CAST( [TransactionAmount] AS REAL) AS TransactionAmount,
      CAST([OutstandingBalance] AS REAL) AS OutstandingBalance,
      CAST([TaxAmount] AS REAL) AS TaxAmount,
      [TransactionDate]
  FROM [Sales].[Customers] AS customers
  LEFT OUTER JOIN
      [Sales].[CustomerTransactions] AS customertransactions
      ON customers.CustomerID = customertransactions.CustomerID;
```
12. The above command can be copied from: **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab03\\SqlViewCmd.txt**

#### Task 6: Import data from the Azure SQL Database

01. In your **Import Data into Azure ML** experiment, in the **Search experiment items** box, type **Import**, and then from the module list, drag a second instance of **Import Data** on to the right-hand side of the experiment canvas.
02. In the right-hand **Properties** pane, in the **Data source** list, select **Azure SQL Database**.
03. In the **Database server name** box, type the following (replacing &lt;*your db servername*&gt; with the name of your database server from the previous exercise):

 **&lt;*your db servername*&gt;.database.windows.net**
04. In the Database name box, type WideWorldImporters-Standard.
05. In the **User name** box, type **dbadmin**.
06. In the **Password** box, type **Pa55w.rd**.
07. In the **Database query** box, type the following command:
```
SELECT * From [20774A].[CustomerTransactions]
```
08. Select Use cached results.
09. Run the experiment, by clicking **RUN** at the bottom of the page.
10. When the experiment has finished running, all modules will show a green check mark to indicate that they have successfully finished; if you get an error, check that the database query from step 7 has been entered correctly.
11. Click **SAVE** at the bottom of the page.

>**Results**: At the end of this exercise, you will have imported data from a flat file, updated an existing dataset, loaded data into blob storage, prepared an Azure SQL database, and loaded data from that database to Machine Learning.

### Exercise 3: Converting imported data into separate datasets

#### Task 1: Visualize imported data

01. In your **Import Data into Azure ML** experiment, double-click the (lower) output port of the left-hand **Import Data** module (the one you used to import data from Azure Blob storage), and then click **Visualize**.
02. Note that there are 16 columns of data; click a column to view a histogram of the data.
03. Close the visualization by clicking the **x** at the top-right of the window.
04. Double-click the (lower) output port of the right-hand **Import Data** module (the one you used to import data from Azure SQL Database), and then click **Visualize**.
05. Note that this data comprises 5 columns and 97,547 rows.
06. Click the **TaxAmount** column to see a distribution for this data as a histogram.
07. Close the visualization by clicking the **x** at the top-right of the window.
08. In the **Search experiment items** box, type **Summarize**, and then from the module list, drag **Summarize Data** on to the right-hand side of the experiment canvas.
09. Connect **Summarize Data** to **Import Data**. To do this, click the right-hand **Import Data** module, and the output node will show the number 1. Click the output node and, keeping the mouse pressed down, draw a line from the **Import Data** module to the input (top) port of the **Summarize Data** module.
10. Run the experiment by clicking **RUN** at the bottom of the page.
11. When the experiment has finished running, all modules will show a green check mark to indicate that they have successfully finished.
12. When the experiment has run successfully, right-click the output (lower) port of the **Summarize Data** module, and then click **Visualize** to see if the data was imported successfully.
13. Note that the **Summarize Data** module has transposed the columns from the raw data into rows, and has generated summary statistics from the 97,547 rows in the original data; verify that there are now 5 rows and 23 columns.
14. Close the visualization by clicking the **x** at the top-right of the window.
15. Click **SAVE** at the bottom of the page.

#### Task 2: Split imported data into separate datasets

01. In Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio, in your **Import Data into Azure ML** experiment, in the **Search experiment items** box, type **Split**, and then from the module list, drag **Split Data** on to the experiment canvas.
02. Connect **Split Data** to **Import Data**. To do this, click the right-hand **Import Data** module, and the output node will show the number 1. Click the output node and, keeping the mouse pressed down, draw a line from the **Import Data** module to the input (top) port of the **Split Data** module.
03. Click **Split Data**.
04. In the **Properties** pane, in the **Fraction of rows in the first output** **dataset** box, type **0.7**.
05. In the **Search experiment items** box, type **Convert**, and then from the module list, drag **Convert to Dataset** on to the experiment canvas.
06. Connect the input (top) port of the **Convert to Dataset** module to the left-hand output node of the **Split Data** module.
07. Right-click the **Convert to Dataset** module, and click **Copy**.
08. Right-click the experiment canvas, and click **Paste**.
09. Connect the input (top) port of the pasted **Convert to Dataset** module to the right-hand output node of the **Split Data** module.
10. You should now have two **Convert to Dataset** tasks, one with 70 percent of the data, and the other with 30 percent of the data.
11. Run the experiment, by clicking **RUN** at the bottom of the page.
12. When the experiment has finished running, all modules will show a green check mark to indicate that they have successfully finished.

#### Task 3: Confirm creation of split datasets

01. When the experiment in the previous task has run successfully, right-click the output (lower) port of the left-hand **Convert to Dataset** module, and then click **Visualize**.
02. Note that this **Convert to Dataset** module has 68,283 rows of data.
03. Close the visualization by clicking the **x** at the top-right of the window.
04. Right-click the output (lower) port of the right-hand **Convert to Dataset** module, and then click **Visualize**.
05. Note that this **Convert to Dataset** module has 29,264 rows of data.
06. Close the visualization by clicking the **x** at the top-right of the window.
07. Verify that 68,283 and 29,264 are 70 percent and 30 percent respectively of the original 97,547 rows from the imported Azure SQL Database.
08. Click **SAVE** at the bottom of the page.
09. Close Internet Explorer.

>**Results**: After this exercise, you will have visualized some imported data, split this data into two datasets, and then confirmed that the split has been successful.

©2017 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
