# Module 2: Introduction to Azure Machine Learning

## Lab: Introduction to Machine Learning

### Exercise 1: Using Machine Learning Studio

#### Task 1: Explore the Machine Learning Studio workspace

01.  Ensure that the **MT17B-WS2016-NAT**, **20774A-LON-DC**, and **20774A-LON-DEV** virtual machines are running, and that you are logged on to **20774A-LON-DEV** as **ADATUM\\AdatumAdmin**.
02.  On the Start menu, start to type **Internet Explorer**, and then click **Internet Explorer**.
03.  In Internet Explorer, in the address bar, type **https://studio.azureml.net**, and press Enter.
04.  On the **Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio** page, click **Sign In**.
05.  Sign in using the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure Learning Pass subscription.
06.  In the **Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio** workspace, in the left-hand pane, click **PROJECTS**.
07.  There should be no projects listed; you will create a project later in this lab.
08.  In the **Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio** workspace, in the left-hand pane, click **EXPERIMENTS**.
09.  Under **MY EXPERIMENTS**, there should be no experiments listed; you will create an experiment later in this lab.
10. On the **experiments** page, click **SAMPLES**; this page lists sample experiments provided by Microsoft.
11. In the **Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio** workspace, in the left-hand pane, click **WEB SERVICES**.
12. There should be no web services listed; you will use web services to deploy experiments in later modules in this course.
13. In the **Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio** workspace, in the left-hand pane, click **NOTEBOOKS**.
14. There should be no notebooks listed; you will use Jupyter notebooks with R and Python scripts in later modules in this course.
15. In the **Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio** workspace, in the left-hand pane, click **DATASETS**.
16. Under **MY DATASETS**, there should be no datasets listed; you will upload your own datasets in later modules in this course.
17. On the **datasets** page, click **SAMPLES**; this page lists sample datasets provided by Microsoft.
18. In the **Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio** workspace, in the left-hand pane, click **TRAINED MODELS**.
19. There should be no trained models listed; you will train your models in later modules in this course.
20. In the **Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio** workspace, in the left-hand pane, click **SETTINGS**.
21. On the **NAME** tab, note that you can edit the workspace description, and view your workspace ID, and the available storage for the workspace.
22. Click **AUTHORIZATION TOKENS**.
23. Note that there are two tokens, and that you have an option to regenerate these tokens.
24. Click **USERS**.
25. Note that currently you are the only user of this workspace; you will invite other users later in this exercise.
26. Click **DATA GATEWAYS**.
27. There should be no data gateways listed; you will use gateways in later modules in this course.
28. In the **Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio** workspace, click the user image at the top-right, and click **Sign Out**.
29. Close Internet Explorer, closing all tabs.

#### Task 2: Create and manage a new standard workspace

01.  On the **20774A-LON-DEV** virtual machine, ensure that you are logged on as **ADATUM\\AdatumAdmin**.
02.  On the Start menu, start to type **Internet Explorer**, and then click **Internet Explorer**.
03.  In Internet Explorer, in the address bar, type **http://azure.microsoft.com**, click **Portal**, and sign in using the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure Learning Pass subscription.
04.  In the Azure Portal, in the left-hand pane, click **+ New**.
05.  Click **Intelligence + analytics**, click **See all**, click **Machine Learning Workspace**, and then click **Create**.
06.  Enter your workspace information, and then click **Create**:
  -   Workspace name: **&lt;*your name*&gt;-Standard-Workspace**
  -   Subscription: **Azure Pass**
  -   Resource group: **create new**
  -   Location: choose the nearest location
  -   Storage account: **create new** &lt;unique&gt;
  -   Workspace pricing tier: **Standard**
  -   Web service plan: **create new**
  -   Web service plan pricing tier: **DevTest Standard**
07.  Wait until the workspace has been deployed; click **Refresh** to see the new workspace.
08.  In the workspace list, click the new workspace.
09.  Click **Overview** in the left blade; note your workspace usage and your workspace information.
10.  Click the **Activity** **log** in the left blade; note the option to filter deployment activities by subscription, resource group, and so on.
11.  Under the **General** tab in the left blade, click **Properties**; note the workspace and resource information, and that you can change the subscription and resource group for this workspace.
12.  Under the **General** tab in the left blade, click **Resync Storage Keys**; note that you can click **Resync Keys** to synchronize storage account keys with the workspace.
13.  In Internet Explorer, click **New tab** to create a new tab.
14.  Go to Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio at [***https://studio.azureml.net***](https://studio.azureml.net), and then click **Sign In**.
15.  In the workspace list on the top bar, select the region you used for your standard workspace, and then select the workspace in the list.
16. Note that there are no experiments associated with this workspace.
17. In the workspace list on the top bar, select the region you used for your free workspace, and then select this workspace in the list.
18. In Internet Explorer, switch to the Azure Portal tab.
19. In the **Machine Learning Workspace** list, click the ellipsis (**...**) next to your standard workspace, and then click **Delete**.
20. In the **Delete Workspace** dialog box, click **Yes**.
21. Wait until the workspace has been deleted; click **Refresh** to confirm that the workspace has been removed.
22. In Internet Explorer, switch to the **Microsoft** **Azure Machine Learning Studio** tab.
23. In the workspace list on the top bar, select the region you used for your standard workspace, and confirm that there is no longer a workspace in the list

#### Task 3: Share a Machine Learning Studio workspace

01.  In Internet Explorer, ensure that you are using the Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio tab.
02.  In the left panel, click **SETTINGS**.
03.  Click the **USERS** tab.
04.  Click **INVITE MORE USERS** at the bottom of the page.
05.  In the box, enter the Outlook/Hotmail email address of the person next to you in the classroom.
06.  In the **Add as** list, click **Users**, and then click **Complete** (the tick button).
07.  Note that the user is shown with a status of **Invited**.
08.  The user you added will receive an email message that has instructions on how to sign in to the shared workspace.
09.  Before proceeding to the next step, ensure that the person next to you in the classroom has invited you to their workspace.
10. In Internet Explorer, click **New tab** to create a new tab.
11. Go to **https://outlook.com**, and sign in using the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure Learning Pass subscription.
12. In the Inbox, open the **Welcome to the Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio!** message, and click **Go to the workspace**.
13. If you are prompted for credentials, sign in using the Microsoft account that is associated with your Azure Learning Pass subscription.
14. Note that you are now in your partner’s workspace.
15. In the workspace list on the top bar, select the region you used for your own free workspace, and then select this workspace in the list.
16. In Internet Explorer, ensure that you are using the Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio tab of your own subscription account.
17. Refresh the page; notice that the user you invited is now shown with a status of **Active**, and their name is now displayed in the **NAME** column.
18. In the user list, select the user you invited, and at the bottom of the page, click **REMOVE**.
19. In the confirmation box, click **YES**

>**Results**: At the end of this exercise, you will have successfully managed your Machine Learning Studio workspace.

### Exercise 2: Clone and run a simple experiment

#### Task 1: Clone an experiment

01.  In the **Microsoft** **Azure Machine Learning Studio** workspace, in the left-hand pane, click **EXPERIMENTS**.
02.  On the **experiments** page, click **SAMPLES**.
03.  In the list of samples, click **Recommender: Movie recommendation**.
04.  At the bottom of the workspace, click **SAVE AS**.
05.  In the **SAVE AS** dialog box, type **My Movie Recommender**, and then click **OK** (the tick).
06.  Right-click **Movie Ratings**, point to **dataset**, and then click **Visualize**.
07.  Note that movies are identified by a number (**MovieId**).
08.  Click the **Rating** column, and note the histogram showing the data distribution, with a rating of “10” being most common.
09.  Close the visualization by clicking the **x** at the top-right of the window.
10. Right-click **IMDB Movie Titles**, point to **datasets**, and then click **Visualize**.
11. Note that this dataset maps movie ID numbers to Movie Name.
12. Close the visualization by clicking the **x** at the top-right of the window.

#### Task 2: Manage a cloned experiment

01.  Run the **My Movie Recommender** experiment by clicking **RUN** at the bottom of the page.
02.  When the experiment has finished running, all modules will show a green check mark to indicate that they have successfully finished; a **Finished running** status is also shown in the upper-right corner of the workspace.
03.  Ensure that you have not selected a module by clicking on the workspace canvas; the **Properties** pane should display details of the experiment.
04.  In the **Properties** pane, click **Project**, and then click **Add to project**.
05.  In the **Add to project** dialog box, click **New Project**.
06.  Type **Movie Project**, and then click **OK** (the tick).
07.  Note that the experiment and the datasets have now been added to the project.
08.  In the **Microsoft** **Azure Machine Learning Studio** workspace, in the left-hand pane, click **PROJECTS**.
09.  Click **Movie Project**.
10. At the bottom of the page, click **EDIT**.
11. In the **Change Project Configuration** dialog box, under **ALL ASSETS**, expand **Datasets**, select **Movie Tweets**, and click the right arrow.
12. Under **PROJECT ASSETS**, expand **Datasets**, and confirm that **Movie Tweets** has been added to the project, and then click **OK** (the tick).
13. In the **Microsoft** **Azure Machine Learning Studio** workspace, click the user image at the top-right, and click **Sign Out**.
14. Close all browser windows

>**Results**: At the end of this exercise, you will have cloned a Machine Learning experiment.

©2017 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
