# Module 6: Building Azure Machine Learning Models

## Lab: Building Machine Learning models

### Exercise 1: Use regression analysis in Machine Learning Studio

#### Task 1: Use boosted decision tree regression in an experiment

01. On the **20774A-LON-DEV** virtual machine, ensure that you are logged in as **ADATUM\\AdatumAdmin**.
02. On the Start menu, start to type **Internet Explorer**, and then click **Internet Explorer**.
03. In the address bar, type **https://studio.azureml.net/**.
04. On the **Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio** page, click **Sign In**.
05. If you are prompted for credentials, use the details of the Microsoft account that you created for this course.
06. Ensure that **EXPERIMENTS** is selected in the navigation pane, and then click **+ NEW**.
07. Click **Blank Experiment**.
08. In the **Search experiment items** box, start to type **Adult**, and then from the module list, drag the **Adult Census Income Binary Classification** dataset module onto the experiment canvas.
09. In the **Search experiment items** box, start to type **Clean**, and then from the module list, drag the **Clean Missing Data** module onto the experiment canvas, below the dataset module.
10. In the Properties pane on the right, use the default settings to replace missing values with zeros.
11. Connect the output node of the dataset module to the input node of the **Clean Missing Data** module.
12. In the **Search experiment items** box, start to type **Edit**, and then from the module list, drag the **Edit Metadata** module onto the experiment canvas, below the **Clean Missing Data** module.
13. Connect the left output node of the **Clean Missing Data** module to the input node of the **Edit Metadata** module.
14. Click **Edit Metadata**, and then in the Properties pane, click **Launch column selector**.
15. In the **Select columns** dialog box, under **Begin With**, click **ALL COLUMNS**.
16. In the first list, select **Exclude**, in the **columns** list, select **workclass**, **occupation**, and **native-country**, and then click the check mark.
17. In the **Search experiment items** box, start to type **Split**, and then from the module list, drag the **Split Data** module onto the experiment canvas, below the **Edit Metadata** module.
18. Click **Split Data**, and then in the Properties pane, in the **Fraction of rows in the first output dataset** box, type **0.7**.
19.	Connect the output node of the **Edit Metadata** module to the input node of the **Split Data** module.
20. In the **Search experiment items** box, start to type **Boosted**, and then from the module list, drag the **Boosted Decision Tree Regression** module onto the experiment canvas, to the left of the **Split Data** module.
21. In the **Search experiment items** box, start to type **Train**, and then from the module list, drag the **Train Model** module onto the experiment canvas, below the **Boosted Decision Tree Regression** and **Split Data** modules.
22. Connect the output node of the **Boosted Decision Tree Regression** module to the left input node of the **Train Model** module.
23.	Connect the left output node of the Split Data module to the right input node of the **Train Model** module.
24. Click the **Train Model** module, and then in the Properties pane, click **Launch column selector**.
25. In the **Select a single column** dialog box, in the **columns** list, select **income**, and then click the check mark.
26. In the **Search experiment items** box, start to type **Score**, and then from the module list, drag the **Score Model** module onto the experiment canvas, below the **Train Model** module.
27. Connect the output node of the **Train Model** module to the left input node of the **Score Model** module.
28. Connect the right output node of the **Split Data** module to the right input node of the **Score Model** module.
29. In the **Search experiment items** box, start to type **Evaluate**, and then from the module list, drag the **Evaluate Model** module onto the experiment canvas, below the **Score Model** module.
30. Connect the output node of the **Score Model** module to the left input node of the **Evaluate Model** module.
31. At the bottom of the page, click **SAVE AS**.
32. In the **EXPERIMENT NAME** box, type **Regression Example**, and then click the check mark.
33. To run the experiment, click **RUN** at the bottom of the page.
34. When the experiment has finished running, click the output node of the **Evaluate Model** module, and then click **Visualize**.
35. The **Boosted Decision Tree** **Regression** module is fairly accurate in predicting income for the **Adult Census Income** **Binary Classification** dataset module. The coefficient of determination (R<sup>2</sup>) is just under 0.5, and there is a low mean absolute error.
36. Close the visualization by clicking the **x** at the top-right of the window.

#### Task 2: Add linear regression to an experiment

01.  In the **Regression Example** experiment, in the **Search experiment items** box, start to type **Linear**, and then from the module list, drag the **Linear Regression** module onto the experiment canvas, to the right of the **Split Data** module.
02. In the **Search experiment items** box, start to type **Train**, and then from the module list, drag the **Train Model** module onto the experiment canvas, below the **Linear Regression** and **Split Data** modules.
03. Connect the output node of the **Linear Regression** module to the left input node of the **Train Model** module.
04. Connect the left output node of the **Split Data** module to the right input node of the **Train Model** module.
05. Click **Train Model**, and then in the Properties pane, click **Launch column selector**.
06. In the **Select a single column** dialog box, under **AVAILABLE COLUMNS**, click **income**.
07. Click the right arrow so that this column appears in the **SELECTED COLUMNS** list, and then click the check mark.
08. In the **Search experiment items** box, start to type **Score**, and then from the module list, drag the **Score Model** module onto the experiment canvas, below the second **Train Model** module.
09. Connect the output node of the second **Train Model** module to the left input node of the second **Score Model** module.
10. Connect the right output node of the **Split Data** module to the right input node of the second **Score Model** module.
11. Connect the output node of the second **Score Model** module to the right input node of the **Evaluate Model** module.
12. At the bottom of the page, click **SAVE**.
13. To run the experiment, click **RUN** at the bottom of the page.
14. When the experiment has finished running, click the output node of the **Evaluate Model** module, and then click **Visualize**.
15. The linear regression evaluation is shown on the right. Note that this modeling technique does not appear to be as accurate as the boosted decision tree regression. The linear regression has a slightly higher mean absolute error, a higher root-mean-square error, and a lower coefficient of determination (R<sup>2</sup>) when compared to the boosted decision tree regression on the left.
16. Close the visualization by clicking the **x** at the top-right of the window.

>**Results**: At the end of this exercise, you will have run an experiment using both **Boosted Decision Tree Regression** and **Linear Regression** modules, evaluated the results, and compared the results from both these regression methods.

### Exercise 2: Use neural networks in Machine Learning Studio

#### Task 1: Use a multiclass neural network in an experiment

01.  In Machine Learning Studio, click **+ NEW** to create a new experiment.
02. In the search box, type **neural**, and then press Enter.
03. Select the experiment called **Neural Network: 1 hidden layer**.
04. When the experiment has loaded in Machine Learning Studio, run the experiment by clicking **RUN** at the bottom of the page.
05. When the experiment has finished running, click the output node of the **MNIST Train 60k 28x28 dense** module, and then click **Visualize**.
06. Note that there are no column names and the data is ones and zeros.
07. Close the visualization by clicking the **x** at the top-right of the window.
08. Click the output node of the **MNIST Train 10k 28x28 dense** module, and then click **Visualize**.
09. Note that, again, there are no column names and the data is ones and zeros.
10. Close the visualization by clicking the **x** at the top-right of the window.
11. Click the **Multiclass Neural Network** module, and then in the Properties pane, note the following:
  - A pictures input is defined in the Neural Network Definition section.
  - The value for **Number of learning iterations** is set to **30**, which means that the model will process the data 30 times before reaching a result.
12. Click the **Train Model** module, and then click **Launch column selector**. Note that **Label** is selected and that this will be the result of the analysis.
13. Close the **Select a single column** dialog box.

#### Task 2: Evaluate a neural network experiment

01.  In the **Neural Network: 1 hidden layer** experiment, click the output port of the **Evaluate Model** module, and then click **Visualize**.
02. Note that the confusion matrix, which plots the actual outputs against the predicted outputs, shows very high predictions, which are highlighted in blue diagonally down the matrix. These results show that the predictions are nearly 100 percent correct.
03. Close the visualization by clicking the **x** at the top-right of the window.
04. Click the **Execute R Script** module, and then in the Properties pane, note the R script, which calculates the accuracy of the image recognition.
05. Click the **Execute R Script** module, click the left node, and then click **Visualize**.
06. Note the accuracy value (F1 score) of 0.977. This is a very high F1 score—nearly 100 percent—which suggests that this is a successful model.

>**Results**: At the end of this exercise, you will have run an experiment using the **Multiclass Neural Network** module and evaluated the results.

©2017 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.
