# Module 5: Using Feature Engineering and Selection in Azure Machine Learning
# Lab: using feature engineering and selection

### Scenario
You work as a data scientist for Adatum Consultants, a company that provides machine learning services and advice for a range of clients. One of your clients is Wide World Importers, who are transitioning from a Business Intelligence practice to a Business Analytics practice. As part of this transition, Wide World Importers are looking for insights from operational data sources throughout the organization.
You are working with a team of Wide World Importers business analysts, who write reports using data that is stored in a variety of locations, including Azure SQL Database, and various local flat files. You are following the recommended steps of the Team Data Science Process (TDSP). As part of the TDSP, you will perform some feature engineering steps, as per the Modeling phase of the process. You will be using Machine Learning with this team so, to familiarize yourself with this environment, you need to explore the steps required to merge two datasets in Azure Machine Learning Studio.

### Objectives
After completing this lab, you will be able to:
-   Prepare datasets ready for merging.
-   Use Join to create new merged datasets.

### Lab Setup
Estimated Time: 60 Minutes
Virtual machine: **20774A-LON-DEV**
User name: **ADATUM\\AdatumAdmin**
Password: **Pa55w.rd**
This lab requires the Azure SQL Database that students created in Lab 3.

## Exercise 1: Prepare datasets ready for merging

### Scenario
In this exercise, you will open an existing experiment that imported transaction data from a Wide World Importers database hosted in Azure SQL Database. This transaction dataset records sales by date, but does not include any information about those dates. You will, therefore, import a second dataset that records whether any date is a public holiday and/or was a day when Wide World Importers was running a sales promotion. In the next exercise, you will join these datasets, and export the results to Azure SQL Database.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:
1. Prepare transaction dataset
2. Prepare date dataset

#### Task 1: Prepare transaction dataset
1.  Log on to the **20774A-LON-DEV** virtual machine as **ADATUM\\AdatumAdmin**.
2.  In the Azure Portal, under All Resources, select **WideWorldImporters-Standard**.
3.  Log in to the **Query editor (preview)**, using **SQL Server authentication** with a user name of **dbadmin** and password of **Pa55w.rd**.
4.  Run the command from **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab05\\SqlSchemaCmd.txt**.

#### Task 2: Prepare date dataset
1.  In Internet Explorer, browse to **https://studio.azureml.net**/, and sign in with your Microsoft account.
2.  Create a new dataset from a local file.
3.  Upload **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab05\\DimDate3.csv** as the **DateHolidayPromo** dataset, using a **generic CSV with a header**.

**Results**: At the end of this exercise, you will have uploaded two datasets to Machine Learning Studio, ready for merging.

## Exercise 2: Use Join to create new merged dataset

### Scenario
In this exercise, you will join the two datasets that were imported in the previous exercise. You will then export the results to Azure SQL Database ready for future analysis.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:
1. Join transaction and date datasets
2. Save a merged dataset to Azure SQL Database
3. Confirm data export

#### Task 1: Join transaction and date datasets
01. Open the **Process Data in Azure ML** experiment from Lab 4.
02. Save this experiment as **Shape Data in Azure ML**.
03. Reconfigure **Import Data** so that it does not use cached data.
04. Add **DateHolidayPromo** to the left side of the experiment canvas, to the left of the existing **Import Data** module.
05. Connect a new **Summarize Data** module below **DateHolidayPromo**.
06. Run the experiment.
07. When the experiment has finished running, visualize the output of the **Summarize Data** module that you just added, and note that there are 18 rows (features) in this dataset.
08. Visualize the output of the **Summarize Data** module below **Import Data**, and note that there are six rows (features) in this dataset.
09. Drag a **Join Data** module on to the experiment canvas, between and below **DateHolidayPromo** and **Import Data**.
10. Connect the output port of **DateHolidayPromo** to the left-hand input port of **Join Data**.
11. Connect the output port of **Import Data** to the right-hand input port of **Join Data**.
12. Configure the **Join Data** module to use **PKIDDate** as the join key for both input datasets.
13. Reconfigure **Import Data** so that it uses cached data.
14. Run the experiment.
15. When the experiment has finished running, visualize the output of the **Summarize Data** module that you just added, and note that there are now 24 rows (features) in the joined data, and that the columns from both source tables are now listed in the **Feature** column.
16. Save the experiment.

#### Task 2: Save a merged dataset to Azure SQL Database
1.  Drag an **Export Data** module on to the experiment canvas, below **Join Data**.
2.  Configure the **Export Data** module, using the following information:
    - Data source: **Azure SQL Database**.
    - Database server name: **&lt;*your db servername*&gt;.database.windows.net** (replacing ***&lt;your db servername&gt;*** with the name of your database server from Lab 3).
    - Database name: **WideWorldImporters-Standard**.
    - User name: **dbadmin**.
    - Password: **Pa55w.rd**.
    - Both Comma separated lists: 
	CustomerName, TransactionAmount, OutstandingBalance, TaxAmount, TransactionDate, Season, Holiday, Promo, PKIDDate.
    - The above list can be copied from: **E:\\Labfiles\\Lab05\\Columns.txt**.
3.  Note that the second list box is for names of the columns as you wish them to appear in the destination table, but for this exercise you will use the same names as in the source data.
4.  Data table name: **ShapeExport**.
5.  Run and save the experiment.

#### Task 3: Confirm data export
1.  In the Azure Portal, under All Resources, select **WideWorldImporters-Standard**.
2.  Log in to the **Query editor (preview)**, using **SQL Server authentication** with a user name of **dbadmin** and password of **Pa55w.rd**.
3.  Run the following command:
    ```
	SELECT * FROM ShapeExport
    ```
4.  Verify that the **ShapeExport** table contains data with features from both source datasets.

**Results**: At the end of this exercise, you will have used Machine Learning Studio to join two datasets using a common key, saved the merged data to a new dataset location, and confirmed that the export was successful.

**Question:** Why is it important to fully understand your datasets before running any form of merging or combining on these datasets?

**Question:** What steps could you take if you did not have a common key field, or feature, in two datasets that you wished to join together?

©2017 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.