# Module 7: Using Classification and Clustering with Azure Machine Learning Models
# Lab: Using classification and clustering with Machine Learning models

### Scenario
You work as a data scientist for Adatum Consultants, a company that provides machine learning services and advice for a range of clients. Some of your clients are looking to use machine learning for insights from operational data sources throughout their organizations.

### Objectives
After completing this lab, you will be able to:
-   Use Azure ML Studio for classification
-   Use Azure ML Studio for clustering

### Lab Setup
Estimated Time: 45 minutes
Virtual machine: **20774A-LON-DEV**
User name: **ADATUM\\AdatumAdmin**
Password: **Pa55w.rd**

## Exercise 1: Apply Azure ML Studio modules for classification

### Scenario
One of your clients need to predict which people in their database are likely to give blood so that they can perform a targeted marketing campaign. You will evaluate a classification model to assess whether this can provide useful information.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:
1. Create a machine learning experiment
2. Select the data
3. Split the data
4. Visualize a trained model
5. Evaluate a model

#### Task 1: Create a machine learning experiment
-   Create a blank machine learning experiment in Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio.

#### Task 2: Select the data
1.  Add the **Blood donation data** dataset to your model.
2.  Select all available columns using a **Select Columns in Dataset** module.

#### Task 3: Split the data
-   Split the data with 75% of the data being used to train the model.

#### Task 4: Visualize a trained model
1.  Use the **Multiclass Decision Forest** module to classify your data with one tree with a maximum depth of four.
2.  Add a **Train Model** module taking inputs from the **Split Data** module and the **Multiclass Decision Forest**.
3.  Configure the **Train Model** to classify based on **Class**.
4.  Run and visualize the model.

#### Task 5: Evaluate a model
1.  Score the model.
2.  Run and visualize the scored dataset and note the results for **Recency**.
3.  Evaluate the model and note its accuracy.

**Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have deployed and evaluated a clustering model.

## Exercise 2: Working with K-Means clustering

### Scenario
Your client has large amounts of automobile data and they want to group automobiles into clusters to be able to assess the likelihood of owners buying their engine servicing program.

The main tasks for this exercise are as follows:
1. Create a machine learning experiment
2. Select the data
3. Apply Clustering

#### Task 1: Create a machine learning experiment
-   Create a blank machine learning experiment in Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio.

#### Task 2: Select the data
-   Add the **MPG Data for various automobiles** dataset and use a Select Columns in Dataset module to limit the dataset to **MPG**, **Horsepower**, **Weight**, and **Model**.

#### Task 3: Apply Clustering
1.  Add **K-Means Clustering** and configure it to create four clusters.
2.  Add **Train Clustering Model** with inputs from **K-Means Clustering** and **Select Columns in Dataset**.
3.  Configure **Train Clustering Model** to use the **MPG**, **Horsepower**, **Weight**, and **Model** columns.
4.  Add the **Assign Data to Clusters** module with both of its inputs coming from **Train Clustering Model**.
5.  Add a **Select Columns in Dataset** module with **Selected columns** of **Model** and **Assignments**.
6.  Scroll across to view the clusters that various models have been assigned to.

**Results**: After completing this exercise, you will have clustered automobile data into four groups.

©2017 Microsoft Corporation. All rights reserved.

The text in this document is available under the [Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/legalcode), additional terms may apply. All other content contained in this document (including, without limitation, trademarks, logos, images, etc.) are **not** included within the Creative Commons license grant. This document does not provide you with any legal rights to any intellectual property in any Microsoft product. You may copy and use this document for your internal, reference purposes.

This document is provided "as-is." Information and views expressed in this document, including URL and other Internet Web site references, may change without notice. You bear the risk of using it. Some examples are for illustration only and are fictitious. No real association is intended or inferred. Microsoft makes no warranties, express or implied, with respect to the information provided here.